FILE:F/F-8K-20091125113504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
On November 24, 2009, Ford Motor Company (Ford) issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time prior to November 24, 2009, the Existing Credit Agreement) among Ford, the subsidiary borrowers from time to time party thereto, the several lenders from time to time party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto as lenders.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
As a result of the Fourth Amendment, the Existing Credit Agreement has been amended and restated effective November 24, 2009 (the ARCA). The Fourth Amendment, including the ARCA, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Prior to the Fourth Amendment, revolving lenders held commitments totaling $10.7 billion that matured on December 15, 2011.  As a result of the Fourth Amendment, lenders will have commitments totaling $7.2 billion in a new revolving facility that matures on November 30, 2013, and such lenders will convert $724 million of their existing revolving loans to a new term loan that matures on December 15, 2013.  The new term loan has the same pricing, maturity, and other terms as the existing term loan, but is not subject to Mandatory Prepayments (as defined in the ARCA).
 
Lenders who agreed to extend the maturity of their revolving commitments had the option to reduce their commitments by up to 25%, and will receivea 1 percentage point increase in interest rate margins, an increase in quarterly fees and payment of an upfront fee.  On December 3, 2009, Ford will repay $1.9 billion of the existing revolving loans to effect the commitment reductions elected by extending lenders.  Lenders with revolving commitments totaling $886 million have elected not to extend those commitments, which will mature on the original maturity date of December 15, 2011.
 
The lenders also approved the following amendments to the covenants in the Existing Credit Agreement:
 
- 2 - -
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 - -
 
 
- 4 -

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FORD COMPLETES PLAN TO AMEND AND EXTEND EXISTING REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY
DEARBORN, Mich., November 24, 2009  Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) announced today the successful completion of its previously announced plan to amend and extend the revolving credit facility under its secured credit agreement.  Revolving lenders have agreed to extend the maturity of commitments totaling $7.2 billion under the facility to November 30, 2013 from December 15, 2011, and such lenders will convert $724 million of their existing revolving loans to a new term loan that matures on December 15, 2013.  The total amount extended to 2013, including the new term loan, is $7.9 billion.
Each lender that agreed to extend the maturity of its revolving commitment was permitted to reduce its revolving commitment by up to 25 percent at its election and to the extent its reduced revolving commitment exceeded certain specified levels, such excess will be converted into the new term loan under the secured credit agreement maturing on December 15, 2013.  In addition, lenders that agreed to extend the maturity of their revolving commitments will receive a 1 percentage point increase in interest rate margins, an increase in quarterly fees and payment of an upfront fee.
We are very pleased with the results of the amendment, extension to our revolving credit facility, and new term loan said Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer. We appreciate the support of our banking partners as todays actions will provide additional liquidity through 2013.
 
 
 
On December 3, 2009, Ford will repay $1.9 billion of the existing revolving loans to effect the commitment reductions elected by extending lenders.  Lenders with commitments totaling $886 million have elected not to extend those commitments, which will mature on the original maturity date of December 15, 2011.
Prior to the amendment, revolving lenders held commitments totaling $10.7 billion that matured on December 15, 2011.  After the amendment, revolving lenders hold a total of $8.1 billion of extended and non-extended revolving commitments and $724 million of the new term loan.
The lenders also approved amendments to the credit facility that expand existing limitations on debt prepayments and repurchases to allow for further balance sheet improvements.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 200,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOURTH AMENDMENT dated as of November 24, 2009 (this ) to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2006 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the ) among Ford Motor Company (the ), the Subsidiary Borrowers (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) from time to time party thereto, the several lenders from time to time party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the ), and the other agents parties thereto.  Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (defined below) and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
Amendment Agreement
Existing Credit Agreement
Company
Administrative Agent
 
WHEREAS, the Company has requested an amendment to the Existing Credit Agreement pursuant to which (a) some or all of the existing Revolving Lenders will agree to convert a portion of their existing Revolving Commitments into a new tranche of term loans and to extend the maturity of all of their Revolving Commitments (after giving effect to such conversion and a reduction in the amount of such Revolving Commitments by up to 25% or an increase in the amount of such Revolving Commitments, in each case at the election of each applicable Revolving Lender) to November 30, 2013 and (b) certain provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement, including provisions relating to defaulting lenders and restricted payments, will be amended; and
 
WHEREAS, in order to effect the foregoing, the Company and the other parties hereto desire to amend and restate, as of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date (as defined below), the Existing Credit Agreement and to enter into certain other agreements set forth herein, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1Effective as of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date:
.  Amendment and Restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement.
 
(a)      the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety in the form of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement set forth as Exhibit A hereto (the Existing Credit Agreement, as so amended and restated, the );
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
 
(b)      Each of Exhibit H (Form of Drawing Notice), Exhibit I (Form of Competitive Bid Request), Exhibit J (Form of Competitive Bid), Exhibit K (Form of Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter), Exhibit U-1 (Form of Term Note) and Exhibit U-2 (Form of Revolving Note) to the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth in Exhibits H, I, J, K, U-1 and U-2 hereto;
 
(c)      Schedule 1.1G (Pricing Grid) to the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth on Schedule 1.1G hereto; and
 
(d)      Schedule 1.1A (Commitments) to the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to reflect, under the heading Following the Conversion, the elections made by the Revolving Lenders party hereto that elect, on their respective signature pages hereto, to extend the Revolving Termination Date in respect of their existing Revolving Commitments (each, an ) and, as provided on such signature pages and in the instructions thereto, reduce or increase the amount of such existing Revolving Commitments and/or convert a portion of such existing Revolving Commitments into Tranche B-2 Term Loans.  Each Revolving Lender party hereto hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to compile such modified Schedule 1.1A (Commitments) reflecting such elections, increases, reductions and conversions and attach such modified Schedule 1.1A (Commitments) to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
Extending Lender
 
 
 
Except as set forth above, all schedules and exhibits to the Existing Credit Agreement, in the forms thereof in effect immediately prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, will continue to be schedules and exhibits to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
 
Section 2To induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment Agreement, the Company hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
.  Representations and Warranties.  
 
(a)      (i) The Company has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Amendment Agreement, has taken all necessary corporate or other action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment Agreement and has duly executed and delivered this Amendment Agreement and (ii) this Amendment Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by  applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).
 
(b)      As of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
(c)      Each of the representations and warranties set forth in the Loan Documents is true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date with the same effect as though made on and as of the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties were true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
 
Section 3The effectiveness of this Amendment Agreement and the amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement in the form of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent (the date on which all of such conditions shall first be satisfied, the ):
.  Effectiveness of this Amendment Agreement and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  
Amendment and Restatement Effective Date
 
(a)      The Administrative Agent shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor, the Required Lenders, the Majority Revolving Lenders, each Extending Lender, the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Lender and each Swingline Lender.
 
 
2
(b)      The Administrative Agent shall have received legal opinions, dated the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, of (i) Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, New York counsel to the Company, (ii) Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A., Delaware counsel to the Company and (iii) an associate general counsel of the Company, in each case addressed to the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Trustee and each Issuing Lender as to matters previously agreed between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
 
(c)      The Company shall have paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender (a ) for which the Administrative Agent shall have received (by facsimile or otherwise) a completed and executed signature page to this Amendment Agreement prior to 12:00 noon (New York City time) on November 18, 2009, a consent fee equal to 0.05% of the sum of such Lenders Revolving Commitments plus the amount of such Lenders outstanding Term Loan (in each case as defined in, and as in effect under, the Existing Credit Agreement immediately prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date).
Consenting Lender
 
(d)      The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Company, for the account of each Extending Lender (as defined in the Instructions to Signature Page to Fourth Amendment attached hereto), an extension fee (the Revolver Extension Fee) in an amount equal to 0.50% of the 2013 Revolving Commitments of such Extending Lender.
 
Section 4Except as expressly set forth herein or in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, this Amendment Agreement shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders or the Agents under the Existing Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Existing Credit Agreement or any other provision of the Existing Credit Agreement or of any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Company to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.
.  Effect of Amendment. 
(a)
 
 
(b)      On and after the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date, each reference in the Existing Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof, herein, or words of like import, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other Loan Document shall be deemed a reference to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  This Amendment Agreement shall constitute a  for all purposes of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Loan Document
 
Section 5Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby confirms the Liens granted by it under each of the Loan Documents to which it is party and agrees that such Liens shall continue in full force and effect for the benefit of the Secured Parties, securing its Secured Obligations (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement).
.  Continuing Liens and Guarantee Obligations.  
 
The Subsidiary Guarantors confirm the guarantees of the Guaranteed Obligations (as defined in the Guarantee) granted by them under the Guarantee to which they are a party and agree that such guarantees shall continue in full force and effect for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties (as defined in the Guarantee).
 
 
3
Section 6THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
.  Governing Law.  
 
Section 7The Company agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in connection with this Amendment Agreement, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent.
.  Costs and Expenses.  
 
Section 8.  .  This Amendment Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.  Delivery of any executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment Agreement by facsimile or electronic transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
Counterparts
 
Section 9.  .  The headings of this Amendment Agreement are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
[Remainder of page intentionally blank]
 
4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their respective duly authorized officers or representatives as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
i
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
 
ii
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
 
iii
SCHEDULES:
 
1.1A        Commitments
1.1B         Borrowing Base
1.1C         Mandatory Costs
1.1D         Initial Subsidiary Guarantors
1.1E         Mortgaged Property
1.1F         Principal Trade Names
1.1G         Pricing Grid
3.9            Existing Letters of Credit
4.13          Pledged Equity
5.1(g)       Pledged Notes
5.1(h)      UCC Filings
6.7(e)       Post-Closing Items
 
EXHIBITS:
 
 
iv
AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ), dated as of December 15, 2006 and amended and restated as of November 24, 2009, among FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the ), the Subsidiary Borrowers (as defined herein) from time to time parties hereto, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties hereto (the ), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as administrative agent.
Agreement
Company
Lenders
 
The parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
1.1           .  As used in this Agreement, the terms listed in this Section 1.1 shall have the respective meanings set forth in this Section 1.1.
Defined Terms
 
:  as defined in Section 4.1.
2005 10-K
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Canadian Revolving Loans (including Acceptance Equivalent Loans) and accept Acceptances in an aggregate principal and/or face amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment
 
:  each Lender that has a 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment or that holds 2011 Canadian Revolving Loans or Acceptances made pursuant to a 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment.
2011 Canadian Revolving Lender
 
:  Canadian Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitments.
2011 Canadian Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any 2011 Canadian Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after all of the 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate amount of the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2011 Canadian Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2011 Canadian Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2011 Canadian Revolving Facility.
2011 Canadian Revolving Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Domestic Revolving Loans, participate in Swingline Loans and, prior to December 3, 2009, participate in  Letters of Credit in an aggregate principal and/or face amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2011 Domestic Revolving Commitment
 
:  each Lender that has a 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitment or that holds 2011 Domestic Revolving Loans.
2011 Domestic Revolving Lender
 
:  Domestic Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments.
2011 Domestic Revolving Loans
 
 
:  as to any 2011 Domestic Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after the 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate amount of Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2011 Domestic Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2011 Domestic Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2011 Domestic Revolving Facility.
2011 Domestic Revolving Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Multicurrency Revolving Loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment
 
:  each Lender that has a 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or that holds 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Loans.
2011 Multicurrency Revolving Lender
 
:  Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.
2011 Multicurrency Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after all of the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Facility.
2011 Multicurrency Revolving Percentage
 
:  the 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments, the 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitments and the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.
2011 Revolving Commitments
 
:  the 2011 Domestic Revolving Facility, the 2011 Canadian Revolving Facility or the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Facility.
2011 Revolving Facility
 
:  2011 Domestic Revolving Lenders, 2011 Canadian Revolving Lenders and 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Lenders.
2011 Revolving Lenders
 
:  2011 Domestic Revolving Loans, 2011 Canadian Revolving Loans and 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Loans.
2011 Revolving Loans
 
: the Revolving Termination Date with respect to the 2011 Revolving Loans.
2011 Revolving Termination Date
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Canadian Revolving Loans (including Acceptance Equivalent Loans) and accept Acceptances in an aggregate principal and/or face amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment
 
2
:  each Lender that has a 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment or that holds 2013 Canadian Revolving Loans or Acceptances made pursuant to a 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment.
2013 Canadian Revolving Lender
 
:  Canadian Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitments.
2013 Canadian Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any 2013 Canadian Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after all of the 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate amount of the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2013 Canadian Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2013 Canadian Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2013 Canadian Revolving Facility.
2013 Canadian Revolving Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Domestic Revolving Loans and participate in Swingline Loans and Letters of Credit in an aggregate principal and/or face amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment
 
:  each Lender that has a 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment or that holds 2013 Domestic Revolving Loans.
2013 Domestic Revolving Lender
 
:  Domestic Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments.
2013 Domestic Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate amount of Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2013 Domestic Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2013 Domestic Revolving Facility.
2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make Multicurrency Revolving Loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment
 
:  each Lender that has a 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or that holds 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Loans.
2013 Multicurrency Revolving Lender
 
:  Revolving Loans made pursuant to the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.
2013 Multicurrency Revolving Loans
 
3
:  as to any 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate amount of 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then in effect or, at any time after all of the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Lender under the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Facility then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Lenders then outstanding under the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Facility.
2013 Multicurrency Revolving Percentage
 
:  the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments, the 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitments and the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.
2013 Revolving Commitments
 
: the 2013 Domestic Revolving Facility, the 2013 Canadian Revolving Facility or the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Facility.
2013 Revolving Facility
 
:  2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders, 2013 Canadian Revolving Lenders and 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Lenders.
2013 Revolving Lenders
 
:  2013 Domestic Revolving Loans, 2013 Canadian Revolving Loans and 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Loans.
2013 Revolving Loans
 
:  for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the greater of (a) (i) the Prime Rate in effect on such day or (ii) in the case of Canadian Revolving Loans denominated in Dollars, the US Base Rate (Canada) in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus  of 1%.  Any change in the ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate, the US Base Rate (Canada) or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective as of the opening of business on the effective day of such change in the Prime Rate, the US Base Rate (Canada) or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
ABR
 
:  Loans the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the ABR.
ABR Loans
 
:  a Draft drawn by a Canadian Borrower on a Canadian Revolving Lender conforming to the requirements of Section 2.10 and accepted by such Canadian Revolving Lender in accordance with Section 2.10(c).  As the context shall require, Acceptance shall also have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2.10(j).
Acceptance
 
:  an advance made under this Agreement by a Canadian Revolving Lender evidenced by a Discount Note.
Acceptance Equivalent Loan
 
:  at any time, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate face amount of the outstanding Acceptances and Acceptance Equivalent Loans at such time.  The Acceptance Exposure of any Canadian Revolving Lender at any time shall be its Canadian Revolving Percentage of the aggregate Acceptance Exposure at such time.
Acceptance Exposure
 
:  has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(m).
Acceptance Fee
 
:  in respect of each Acceptance, the obligation of the relevant Canadian Borrower to pay to the Canadian Revolving Lender that accepted such Acceptance the face amount thereof as required by Section 2.10(e).
Acceptance Obligation
 
4
:  (a) in the case of Revolving Lenders, a Master Addendum, Credit Reallocation Agreement and Amendment Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit S-1 and (b) in the case of Term Lenders, an Addendum Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit S-2.
Addendum
 
:  each Domestic Subsidiary of the Company (other than any Excluded Subsidiary) (a) that has Consolidated Total Assets with a Net Book Value in excess of $500,000,000 and (b) with respect to which the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor directly or indirectly owns 80% or more of the Capital Stock or Voting Stock of such Subsidiary and the remaining Capital Stock of which is not publicly held.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantor
 
:  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent for the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (and, with respect to the Canadian Revolving Facility, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., Toronto Branch), together with any of its successors.
Administrative Agent
 
:  as defined in Section 2.23.
Affected Foreign Currency
 
:  the collective reference to the Collateral Trustee and the Administrative Agent.
Agents
 
:  as to any Domestic Revolving Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders Domestic Revolving Commitment then constitutes of the Total Domestic Revolving Commitments or, at any time after the Domestic Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate amount of such Lenders Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under the Domestic Revolving Commitments then outstanding constitutes of the Total Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit then outstanding.
Aggregate Domestic Revolving Percentage
 
:  with respect to any Lender at any time, an amount equal to (a) until the Closing Date, the aggregate amount of such Lenders Commitments at such time and (b) thereafter, the sum of (i) the aggregate then unpaid principal amount of such Lenders Term Loans and (ii) the amount of such Lenders Revolving Commitments then in effect or, if the Revolving Commitments have expired or been terminated, the amount of such Lenders Revolving Extensions of Credit then outstanding.
Aggregate Exposure
 
:  with respect to any Lender at any time, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of such Lenders Aggregate Exposure at such time to the Aggregate Exposure of all Lenders at such time.
Aggregate Exposure Percentage
 
:  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Agreement
 
:  the Fourth Amendment dated as of November 24, 2009 with respect to this Agreement.
Amendment Agreement
 
: as defined in the Amendment Agreement.
Amendment and Restatement Effective Date
 
:  (i) prior to December 3, 2009, the Available Domestic Revolving Commitments in respect of the 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments and the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments and (ii) from or after December 3, 2009, the Available Domestic Revolving Commitments in respect of 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments.
Applicable Available Domestic Revolving Commitments
 
5
:  (i) prior to December 3, 2009, the 2011 Domestic Revolving Lenders and the 2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, the 2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders.
Applicable Domestic Revolving Lenders
 
:  for any Lender, with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower, such Lenders office, branch or affiliate designated for Acceptances, Acceptance Equivalent Loans, Eurocurrency Loans, ABR Loans, Canadian Base Rate Loans, L/C Participations, Competitive Loans, Swingline Loans or Letters of Credit, as applicable, as notified to the Administrative Agent and the Company or as otherwise specified in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto, any of which offices may, subject to Section 2.26, be changed by such Lender upon 10 days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Company.
Applicable Lending Office
 
:  (a) with respect to Term Loans, (i) at any time when the Companys Corporate Family Rating from Moodys is B2 or better and its Corporate Credit Rating from S&P is B or better, (A) 1.75% per annum in the case of ABR Loans and (B) 2.75% per annum in the case of Eurocurrency Loans and (ii) at all other times, (A) 2.00% per annum in the case of ABR Loans and (B) 3.00% per annum in the case of Eurocurrency Loans and (b) with respect to Revolving Loans, (i) until delivery of financial statements for the first full fiscal quarter of the Company completed after the Closing Date pursuant to Section 6.1, (A) 1.25% per annum in the case of ABR Loans and Canadian Base Rate Loans and (B) 2.25% per annum in the case of Eurocurrency Loans and (ii) thereafter, the rate per annum set forth under the relevant column heading in the Pricing Grid; that the Applicable Margin in effect at any time may be increased pursuant to Section 6.7(e).
Applicable Margin
provided
 
Changes in the Applicable Margin for Term Loans resulting from changes in ratings by S&P or Moodys shall become effective on the Business Day following the announcement of such new rating.   If one or more of such rating agencies shall not have in effect a Corporate Family Rating or a Corporate Credit Rating, as applicable (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the following sentence), then the rating assigned by the other rating agency shall be used to establish the Applicable Margin for the Term Loans.  If the rating system of Moodys or S&P shall change, or if either rating agency shall cease to be in the business of providing corporate ratings, the Company and the Administrative Agent shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the rating of such rating agency shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
 
 :  as of any date of determination, the present value at such date, computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate 50 basis points, of (a) the prepayment premium applicable to the Term Loans of the applicable Term Lenders on the first day after the second anniversary of the Closing Date, (b) all interest that would accrue on such Term Loans from such date to the first day after the second anniversary of the Closing Date, computed using the Eurocurrency Rate for an Interest Period of three months the Applicable Margin for the Term Loans on such date.
Applicable Premium
plus
plus
plus
 
:  an application, in such form as an Issuing Lender may specify from time to time, requesting such Issuing Lender to open a Letter of Credit.
Application
 
:  as defined in Section 10.6(b).
Approved Fund
 
:  as defined in Section 10.6(b).
Assignee
 
:  an Assignment and Assumption, substantially in the form of Exhibit O.
Assignment and Assumption
 
6
: as to any particular lease under which any Person is at the time liable, at any date as of which the amount thereof is to be determined, the total net amount of rent (discounted from the respective due dates thereof at the rate of 9.5% per annum) required to be paid by such person under such lease during the remaining term thereof. The net amount of rent required to be paid under any such lease for any such period shall be the total amount of the rent payable by the lessee with respect to such period, but may exclude amounts required to be paid on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall also include the amount of such penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated.
Attributable Debt
 
:  as to any Canadian Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to (a) such Lenders Canadian Revolving Commitment of such Class then in effect (b) such Lenders Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Class then outstanding.
Available Canadian Revolving Commitment
minus
 
:  as to any Domestic Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to (a) such Lenders Domestic Revolving Commitment of such Class then in effect (b) such Lenders Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Class then outstanding.
Available Domestic Revolving Commitment
minus
 
:  as of any date of determination, the sum of (a) the lesser of (i) the Total Available Revolving Commitments (including any unused commitment under any Incremental Revolving Facility or any Permitted Additional Senior Facility) and (ii) the excess of (A) the Borrowing Base as of such date, (B) the Borrowing Base Debt at such date   (b) automotive gross cash reported in the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as applicable, filed with the SEC (excluding such amounts held or owned by Foreign Subsidiaries).
Available Liquidity
over
plus
 
:  as to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to (a) such Lenders Multicurrency Revolving Commitment of such Class then in effect (b) such Lenders Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Class then outstanding.
Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment
minus
 
:  as defined in Section 10.7(a).
Benefitted Lender
 
:  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States (or any successor).
Board
 
:  as of any date of determination, the aggregate of the Borrowing Base Amounts calculated for each category of Eligible Collateral in accordance with Schedule 1.1B, as the same may be amended from time to time.  The Borrowing Base at any time shall be determined by reference to the most recent Borrowing Base Certificate delivered to Administrative Agent on the Closing Date or pursuant to Section 6.3(b), as applicable (adjusted on a basis for (a) any Disposition, and the application of the proceeds thereof, described in clause (b), (c), (g), (h) or (i) of Section 7.5 or clause (A) of the last sentence of Section 7.5, (b) any reduction of the Eligible Value of Capital Stock or intercompany notes in connection with the incurrence of any Indebtedness or a Material Guarantee pursuant to clause (f) or clause (g) of Section 7.4 and (c) any addition to the Borrowing Base of additional Collateral in accordance with Schedule 1.1B (including Mazda Shares) or pursuant to Section 6.7(g), in each case consummated after the last day of the fiscal period covered by such Borrowing Base Certificate).
Borrowing Base
pro
forma
 
7
:  a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit F.
Borrowing Base Certificate
 
:  at any time the ratio of (a) the Borrowing Base at such time (adjusted on a basis to the extent, and in the manner, required by this Agreement) to (b) the sum of (i) the Dollar Equivalent Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt at such time (giving effect to any application of proceeds to the extent required or permitted by this Agreement) and (ii) the unused Revolving Commitments (including any unused commitment under any Incremental Revolving Facility or any Permitted Additional Senior Facility) at such time.
Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio
pro
forma
 
:  collectively, (a) Covered Debt and (b) the Outstanding Amount of obligations in excess of $100,000,000 secured by Liens described in clause (x) of the definition of Permitted Liens.
Borrowing Base Debt
 
:  any Business Day specified by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower as a date on which the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower requests the relevant Lenders to make Loans hereunder.
Borrowing Date
 
:  any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks in New York City are permitted to close; , , that when used in connection with (a) a Eurocurrency Loan, the term Business Day shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in Dollar deposits or deposits in any Optional Currency, as applicable, in the London Interbank market, (b) a Canadian Revolving Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars, the term Business Day shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for business in Toronto, Canada, (c) a Multicurrency Revolving Loan denominated in Euros, the term Business Day shall also exclude any day that is not a TARGET Day and (d) any other Optional Currency, the term Business Day shall also exclude any day on which banks in the principal financial center of the country of such Optional Currency are not open for general business.
Business Day
provided
however
 
: as defined in Section 10.7.
CAM Exchange
 
:  at any date, as to any Revolving Lender of any Class, the percentage which the aggregate Revolving Commitments of such Class of such Revolving Lender as of such date (before any termination thereof on such date) constitutes of the aggregate Revolving Commitments of such Class of all Revolving Lenders as of such date (before any termination thereof on such date).
CAM Percentage
 
: the higher of:
Canadian Base Rate
 
(a)           the rate of interest publicly announced by the Administrative Agent (or any Applicable Lending Office thereof) from time to time as its reference rate then in effect for determining interest rates on Canadian Dollar denominated commercial loans made in Canada; and
 
(b)           the CDOR Rate for a one month period, 0.5%.
plus
 
:  Revolving Loans bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Canadian Base Rate.
Canadian Base Rate Loans
 
:  any Subsidiary Borrower that is organized under the laws of Canada or any province or territory thereof.
Canadian Borrower
 
 and :  the lawful money of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
C$
 
8
:  any 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitment or 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment.
Canadian Revolving Commitment
 
:  as to any Canadian Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of all Canadian Revolving Loans of such Class denominated in Dollars held by such Lender (or its Applicable Lending Office) then outstanding, (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of all Canadian Revolving Loans of such Class denominated in Canadian Dollars held by such Lender (or its Applicable Lending Office) then outstanding and (c) such Lenders Acceptance Exposure with respect to such Class.
Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  any 2011 Canadian Revolving Lender or 2013 Canadian Revolving Lender.
Canadian Revolving Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.8(a).
Canadian Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any Canadian Revolving Lender at any time, the 2011 Canadian Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time or the 2013 Canadian Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time, as applicable.
Canadian Revolving Percentage
 
:  any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
 
:  on any day, with respect to a particular term as specified herein, the average annual rate for such term applicable to bankers acceptances in Canadian Dollars displayed and identified as such on the  at approximately 10:00 A.M. Toronto time on such day ( that if such rates do not appear on the Reuters screen CDOR page, then the CDOR Rate shall be the average of the rate quotes for bankers acceptances denominated in Canadian Dollars with such term received by the Administrative Agent at approximately 10:00 A.M. Toronto time on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day) from two or more Schedule I Lenders).
CDOR Rate
Reuters screen CDOR page
provided
 
:  as defined in Section 2.26.
Change in Tax Law
 
:  the occurrence of either (a) more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company being held by a Person or Persons (other than Permitted Holders) who act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of the Company within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act or (b) Continuing Directors ceasing to constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the Company.
Change of Control
 
:  (a) as to any Revolving Commitment, whether such Revolving Commitment is a 2011 Revolving Commitment or a 2013 Revolving Commitment, as to any Revolving Extension of Credit, whether such Revolving Extension of Credit is outstanding under a 2011 Revolving Commitment or under a 2013 Revolving Commitment, as to any Revolving Facility, whether such Revolving Facility is a 2011 Revolving Facility or a 2013 Revolving Facility, as to any Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan, whether such Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan was made pursuant to a 2011 Revolving Commitment or a 2013 Revolving Commitment and as to any Revolving Lender, whether such Revolving Lender is a 2011 Revolving Lender or a 2013 Revolving Lender, and (b) as to any Term Loan, whether such Term Loan is a Tranche B-1 Term Loan or a Tranche B-2 Term Loan.
Class
 
9
:  the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.1 shall have been satisfied, which date is December 15, 2006.
Closing Date
 
:  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
:  all property of the Loan Parties, now owned or hereafter acquired, in which the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor has granted a Lien pursuant to any Security Document.
Collateral
 
:  the conditions to the Collateral Release Date specified in Section 10.15(b) or (c), as applicable.
Collateral Release Conditions
 
:  as defined in Section 10.15.
Collateral Release Date
 
:  the Collateral Trust Agreement to be executed and delivered by the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor, the Collateral Trustee and the other parties named therein, substantially in the form of Exhibit B.
Collateral Trust Agreement
 
:  Wilmington Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee under the Collateral Trust Agreement, and any successor thereof under the Collateral Trust Agreement and, as the context may require, any co-trustee appointed pursuant to the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Collateral Trustee
 
:  secured by cash collateral arrangements and/or backstop letters of credit entered into on terms and in amounts reasonably satisfactory to the relevant Issuing Lender; the terms Collateralize and Collateralization shall have correlative meanings.
Collateralized
 
:  as to any Lender, the sum of the Tranche B-2 Term Commitment and the Revolving Commitments of such Lender.
Commitment
 
:  an entity, whether or not incorporated, that is part of a group that includes the Company and that is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
Commonly Controlled Entity
 
: as defined in Section 7.6.
Common Stock
 
:  an offer by a Revolving Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with Section 2.14.
Competitive Bid
 
:  a notification made by the Company pursuant to Section 2.14 in the form of Exhibit K.
Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter
 
: with respect to any Competitive Bid (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Loan, the Eurocurrency Base Rate plus (or minus) the Margin and (b) in the case of a Fixed Rate Loan, the fixed rate of interest per annum, in each case specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
 
: a request made pursuant to Section 2.14 in the form of Exhibit I.
Competitive Bid Request
 
:  a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.14.
Competitive Loan
 
:  a certificate duly executed by a Responsible Officer, substantially in the form of Exhibit T.
Compliance Certificate
 
10
:  any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument; , that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender, and , , that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 2.25, 2.26, 2.27 or 10.5 than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the extensions of credit made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment.
Conduit Lender
provided
provided
further
 
:  at any date, with respect to any Person, the amount set forth opposite the caption total assets (or any like caption) on a consolidated balance sheet (or the equivalent) of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Total Assets
 
:   at any date, the consolidated total automotive assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most recent consolidated financial statements of the Company delivered pursuant to Section 6.1.
Consolidated Total Automotive Assets
 
: the sum of (a) the aggregate amount of the Companys automotive assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities and (ii) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, (b) the Companys equity in the net assets of its financial services subsidiaries after deducting therefrom all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, in each case as set forth in the most recent financial statements the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets
plus
 
: at any date, an individual (a) who is a member of the board of directors of the Company on the Closing Date, (b) who has been elected as a member of such board of directors with a majority of the total votes of Permitted Holders that were cast in such election voted in favor of such member or (c) who has been nominated to be a member of such board of directors by a majority of the other Continuing Directors then in office.
Continuing Director
 
:  as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 
:  as defined in Section 2.1(b).
Conversion
 
:  collectively, (a) all Indebtedness incurred and all other extensions of credit outstanding (including all Letters of Credit and Acceptances) under this Agreement (including under any Incremental Facility) and any Permitted Additional Senior Facilities, (b) any Permitted Additional Notes and (c) any Permitted First Lien Non-Loan Exposure.
Covered Debt
 
:  as of any date (a) an amount, not less than zero, equal to 50% of the sum of (i) Automotive Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities as set forth on the sector statement of cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reported in the Companys Annual Report(s) on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for the period (taken as one accounting period) from January 1, 2010 to the last day of the most recent fiscal year of the Company for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 6.1, (ii) Automotive Net Cash (used in) / provided by investing activities on the sector statement of cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reported in such Annual Report(s) for such period, (b) the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments made pursuant to Section 7.6(h) prior to such date.
Cumulative Growth Amount
plus
minus
 
11
:  Dollars, Canadian Dollars or any Optional Currency.
Currency
 
: as defined in Section 7.8.
Debt
 
:  any of the events specified in Section 8, whether or not any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, has been satisfied.
Default
 
 means, at any time, a Lender (i) that has defaulted in its obligation to make Loans hereunder, (ii) that has, or the Parent Company of which has, notified the Administrative Agent or the Company, or has stated publicly, that it will not comply with any such funding obligation hereunder, (iii) that has, for three or more Business Days, failed to confirm in writing to the Company, in response to a written request of the Company after the Company has a reasonable basis to believe such Lender will not comply with its funding obligations hereunder, that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, or (iv) with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing.
Defaulting Lender
 
:  obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to banks, financial institutions, investment banks and others in respect of banking, cash management (including, without limitation, Automated Clearinghouse transactions), custody and other similar services and company paid credit cards that permit employees to make purchases on behalf of the Company or such Subsidiary designated by the Company in accordance with the Collateral Trust Agreement from time to time as constituting Designated Cash Management Obligations.
Designated Cash Management Obligations
 
:  the direct obligations of the Company, and the obligations of the Company as a guarantor of any Subsidiarys obligations, to counterparties designated by the Company in accordance with the Collateral Trust Agreement from time to time as constituting Designated Hedging Obligations under or in connection with any of the following: (a) a rate swap transaction, swap option, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option, credit protection transaction, credit swap, credit default swap, credit default option, total return swap, credit spread transaction, repurchase transaction, reverse repurchase transaction, buy/sell-back transaction, securities lending transaction, weather index transaction or forward purchase or sale of a security, commodity or other financial instrument or interest (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or (b) which is a type of transaction that is similar to any transaction referred to in clause (a) above that is currently, or in the future becomes, recurrently entered into in the financial markets (including terms and conditions incorporated by reference in such agreement) and which is a forward, swap, future, option or other derivative on one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity securities or other equity instruments, debt securities or other debt instruments, economic indices or measures of economic risk or value, or other benchmarks against which payments or deliveries are to be made.
Designated Hedging Obligations
 
:  a non-interest bearing, non-negotiable promissory note of a Canadian Borrower denominated in Canadian Dollars, issued by such Canadian Borrower to a Canadian Revolving Lender, substantially in the form of Exhibit G.
Discount Note
 
12
:  for any Acceptance issued hereunder, an amount calculated on the applicable date of issuance by multiplying (a) the face amount of the Acceptance by (b) the quotient obtained by dividing (i) one by (ii) the sum of one plus the product of (A) the Discount Rate applicable to the Acceptance and (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the term of the Acceptance and the denominator of which is 365, with the quotient being rounded up or down to the fifth decimal place and .00005 being rounded up.
Discount Proceeds
 
:  with respect to any Acceptance, (a) for a Canadian Revolving Lender which is a Schedule I Lender, the CDOR Rate (for the applicable term) and (b) for other Canadian Revolving Lenders, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent as being the arithmetic average (rounded upwards to the nearest multiple of 0.01%) of the discount rates for the applicable term, calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days, of the Schedule II/III Reference Lenders established in accordance with their normal practices at or about 10:00 A.M. (Toronto time) on the issuance date of such Acceptance, that the Discount Rate of such other Lenders shall not exceed for any issue the Discount Rate established pursuant to (a) above plus 0.10% per annum.
Discount Rate
provided
 
:  with respect to any property, any sale, transfer or other disposition thereof; and the terms Dispose and Disposed of shall have correlative meanings.
Disposition
 
:  on any date of determination, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount and (b) with respect to an amount denominated in any other currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with normal banking industry practice using the Exchange Rate on the date of determination of such equivalent.  In making any determination of the Dollar Equivalent (for purposes of calculating the amount of Loans to be borrowed from the respective Lenders on any date or for any other purpose), the Administrative Agent shall use the relevant Exchange Rate in effect on the date on which the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower delivers a request for Revolving Loans or on such other date upon which a Dollar Equivalent is required to be determined pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. As appropriate, amounts specified herein as amounts in Dollars shall be or include any relevant Dollar Equivalent amount.
Dollar Equivalent
 
 and :  the lawful money of the United States.
Dollars
$
 
:  any 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitment or 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment.
Domestic Revolving Commitment
 
:  as to any Domestic Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of all Domestic Revolving Loans of such Class held by such Lender then outstanding, (b) (i) prior to December 3, 2009, an amount equal to the product of such Lenders Aggregate Domestic Revolving Percentage of the L/C Obligations then outstanding multiplied by a percentage, the numerator of which is such Lenders Domestic Revolving Commitment of such Class then outstanding and the denominator of which is such Lenders aggregate Domestic Revolving Commitments of both Classes then outstanding and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, (A) in the case of any 2011 Domestic Revolving Lender, zero and (B) in the case of any 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender, such Lenders 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage of the L/C Obligations then outstanding and (c) such Lenders applicable Domestic Revolving Percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans of such Class then outstanding.
Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  any 2011 Domestic Revolving Lender or 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender.
Domestic Revolving Lender
 
13
:  as defined in Section 2.4(a).
Domestic Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any Domestic Revolving Lender at any time, the 2011 Domestic Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time or the 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time, as applicable.
Domestic Revolving Percentage
 
:  any Subsidiary of the Company organized under the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
 
:  any Subsidiary Borrower which is a Domestic Subsidiary.
Domestic Subsidiary Borrower
 
: a depository bill issued in accordance with the (Canada) or a bill of exchange in the form used from time to time by each Canadian Revolving Lender, respectively, in connection with the creation of Acceptances in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.10 and payable in Canadian Dollars.
Draft
Depository Bills and Notes Act
 
:  as defined in Section 2.10(c).
Drawing Notice
 
:  any and all foreign, Federal, state, provincial, local or municipal laws, rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, decrees, requirements of any Governmental Authority or other Requirements of Law (including common law) regulating, relating or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning protection of human health, the environment or natural resources, as now or may at any time hereafter be in effect.
Environmental Laws
 
:  the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
 and :  the official currency of the European Union.
Euro
 
:  with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Loan, the rate per annum determined on the basis of the rate for deposits in the applicable Currency for a period equal to such Interest Period commencing on the first day of such Interest Period appearing on the applicable page of the Telerate screen as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the Quotation Date.  In the event that such rate does not appear on such page of the Telerate screen (or otherwise on such screen), the  shall be determined by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying eurocurrency rates for the applicable Currency as may be selected by the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) or, in the absence of such availability, by reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered deposits in the applicable Currency at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the London interbank eurocurrency market for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
:  any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate.
Eurocurrency Competitive Loan
 
:  Loans the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency Loans
 
14
:  with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Loan, a rate per annum determined for such day in accordance with the following formula (rounded upward to the nearest 1/100th of 1%):
Eurocurrency Rate
 
 
; that with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Pounds Sterling, the Eurocurrency Rate shall the mean the Eurocurrency Base Rate if applicable, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with Schedule 1.1C, the Mandatory Costs.
provided
plus
 
:  a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board and any other banking authority to which the Administrative Agent or any Lender is subject, for Eurocurrency Liabilities (as defined in Regulation D).  Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed under Regulation D.  Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute Eurocurrency Liabilities and as such shall be deemed to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exceptions or offsets which may be available from time to time to any Lender under Regulation D.  Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements
 
:  the collective reference to Eurocurrency Loans under a particular Facility the then current Interest Periods with respect to all of which begin on the same date and end on the same later date (whether or not such Loans shall originally have been made on the same day).
Eurocurrency Tranche
 
:  any of the events specified in Section 8, that any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, has been satisfied.
Event of Default
provided
 
:  the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
:  for any day with respect to any currency (other than Dollars), the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth at 11:00 A.M., London time, on such day on the applicable Reuters currency page with respect to such currency.  In the event that such rate does not appear on the applicable Reuters currency page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Company or, in the absence of such agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the spot rate of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the London Interbank market or other market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted, at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, on such day for the purchase of Dollars with such currency, for delivery two Business Days later; , , that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
however
 
:  collectively (a) FMCC and each Subsidiary thereof, (b) Ford Motor Land Development Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and each Subsidiary thereof, (c) any Subsidiary that is prohibited by any applicable Requirement of Law from guaranteeing the Obligations, (d) any Domestic Subsidiary that is a Subsidiary of a Foreign Subsidiary and (e) subject to Section 6.7(c), any Subsidiary that is a bona fide joint venture.
Excluded Subsidiary
 
15
:  as defined in Section 3.9.
Existing Letters of Credit
 
:  the senior unsecured notes of the Company issued pursuant to the Existing Notes Indentures.
Existing Notes
 
:  collectively, (a) the Indenture, dated as of February 15, 1992, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee, and (b) the Indenture, dated as of January 30, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York (as successor trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank), as trustee.
Existing Notes Indentures
 
:  as defined in Section 2.33.
Extending Lender
 
:  each of (a) (i)  the Tranche B-1 Term Loans (the ) and (ii) the Tranche B-2 Term Commitments and the Tranche B-2 Term Loans made thereunder (the  and, together with the Tranche B-1 Term Facility, the  and each a ), (b) (i) the 2011 Domestic Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the ) and (ii) the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the  and, together with the 2011 Domestic Revolving Facility, the  and each a ), (c) (i) the 2011 Canadian Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the ) and (ii) the 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the  and, together with the 2011 Canadian Revolving Facility, the  and each a ), (d) (i) the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the ) and (ii) the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the  and, together with the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Facility, the  and each a ), (e) any New Local Facility, (f) the Incremental Revolving Commitments (other than any Revolving Commitment Increase) and the extensions of credit thereunder as provided in any Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice (each, an  and together with the Domestic Revolving Facilities, the Canadian Revolving Facilities, the Multicurrency Revolving Facilities and any New Local Facility, the  and each a ) and (g) the Incremental Term Loan Commitments and the Incremental Term Loans related thereto as provided in any Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice (each, an  and together with the Incremental Revolving Facility, the ).
Facility
Tranche B-1 Term Facility
Tranche B-2 Term Facility
Term Facilities
Term Facility
2011 Domestic Revolving Facility
2013 Domestic Revolving Facility
Domestic Revolving Facilities
Domestic Revolving Facility
2011 Canadian Revolving Facility
2013 Canadian Revolving Facility
Canadian Revolving Facilities
Canadian Revolving Facility
2011 Multicurrency Revolving Facility
2013 Multicurrency Revolving Facility
Multicurrency Revolving Facilities
Multicurrency Revolving Facility
Incremental Revolving Facility
Revolving Facilities
Revolving Facility
Incremental Term Loan Facility
Incremental Facilities
 
:  (a) until delivery of financial statements for the first full fiscal quarter of the Company completed after the Closing Date pursuant to Section 6.1, 0.50% per annum and (b) thereafter, the rate per annum set forth under the relevant column heading in the Pricing Grid.
Facility Fee Rate
 
:  as of any date, the credit rating by Moodys or S&P, as applicable, for the Facility.
Facility Rating
 
:  for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. from three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
16
:  (a) the 15 day of each March, June, September and December (or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) and (b) the last day of the final Fee Payment Period.
Fee Payment Date
th
 
:  initially the period from and including the Closing Date to but excluding the initial Fee Payment Date, and thereafter each period commencing on and including a Fee Payment Date to but excluding the succeeding Fee Payment Date (except that the final Fee Payment Period shall end on the date on which all Revolving Commitments have terminated and the Revolving Extensions of Credit have been reduced to zero).
Fee Payment Period
 
:  Fitch Investors Service, L.P. and its successors.
Fitch
 
:  a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a fixed rate per annum specified by the Revolving Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate Loan
 
: Ford Motor Credit Company, a Delaware corporation.
FMCC
 
:  Ford Argentina S.C.A., a company organized under the laws of Argentina.
Ford Argentina
 
:  Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited, a company organized under the laws of Ontario.
Ford Canada
 
:  Ford Motor Company S.A. de C.V., a company organized under the laws of Mexico.
Ford Mexico
 
:  Ford Motor Company of Southern Africa (Pty), a company organized under the laws of South Africa.
Ford South Africa
 
:  any Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
 
:  any Subsidiary Borrower that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary Borrower
 
:  all Debt having a maturity of more than 12 months from the date of the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries or having a maturity of less than 12 months but by its terms being renewable or extendible beyond 12 months from the date of such balance sheet at the option of the borrower thereof.
Funded Debt
 
:  the office of the Administrative Agent specified in Section 10.2 or such other office as may be specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its funding office with respect to any Facility or Facilities by written notice to the Company and the Lenders.
Funding Office
 
:  generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time.  In the event that any Accounting Change (as defined below) shall occur and such change results in a change in the method of calculation of covenants, the Borrowing Base, standards or terms in this Agreement, then the Company and the Administrative Agent agree to enter into negotiations in order to amend such provisions of this Agreement so as to reflect equitably such Accounting Changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the Companys financial condition and the Borrowing Base shall be the same after such Accounting Changes as if such Accounting Changes had not been made.  Until such time as such an amendment shall have been executed and delivered by the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, all covenants, the Borrowing Base, standards and terms in this Agreement shall continue to be calculated or construed as if such Accounting Changes had not occurred.  Accounting Changes refers to changes in accounting principles required by the promulgation of any rule, regulation, pronouncement or opinion by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants or, if applicable, the SEC.
GAAP
 
17
:  any federal, state, provincial, municipal or other governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, or any federal, state or municipal court, in each case whether of the United States or foreign.
Governmental Authority
 
:  Grupo Ford S. de R.L. de C.V., a company organized under the laws of Mexico.
Grupo Ford
 
:  the Guarantee Agreement to be executed and delivered by the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor, substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Guarantee
 
:  shall mean, as to any Person, any obligation of such Person guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person.
Guarantee Obligation
 
:  any Lender designated by the Company or, with the consent of the Company, the Administrative Agent and, in the case of a Revolving Commitment Increase with respect to the 2013 Domestic Revolving Facility, each Material Swingline Lender and Material Issuing Bank at such time (such consents not to be unreasonably withheld), any other bank, financial institution or other Person which becomes a signatory to an Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice or to an Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice, as the case may be, and each Lender which has made, or acquired pursuant to an assignment made in accordance with Section 10.6, an Incremental Term Loan or an Incremental Revolving Commitment, as the case may be.
Incremental Lender
 
: as to each Incremental Lender, in respect of any Revolving Commitment Increase or Incremental Revolving Facility, the obligation of such Incremental Lender on and after the applicable Revolving Commitment Increase Date or Incremental Revolving Loan Closing Date to make Incremental Revolving Loans under the relevant Revolving Facility in a principal amount equal to the amount set forth under the heading Incremental Revolving Commitment opposite such Incremental Lenders name on the applicable Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice.
Incremental Revolving Commitment
 
:  as defined in the definition of the term Facility.
Incremental Revolving Facility
 
: a notice substantially in the form of Exhibit L.
Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice
 
:  as to any Incremental Revolving Facility, the date (which shall be a Business Day) specified in the related Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice as the first date on which Incremental Revolving Loans will be made available thereunder.
Incremental Revolving Loan Closing Date
 
: as to any Incremental Revolving Facility, the maturity date specified in the Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice relating thereto.
Incremental Revolving Loan Maturity Date
 
:  as defined in Section 2.32(b).
Incremental Revolving Loans
 
:  a notice substantially in the form of Exhibit M.
Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice
 
18
:  as to each Incremental Lender, in respect of any Incremental Term Loan Facility, the obligation of such Incremental Lender on and after the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date to make Incremental Term Loans hereunder in a principal amount equal to the amount set forth under the heading Incremental Term Loan Commitment opposite such Incremental Lenders name on the applicable Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice.
Incremental Term Loan Commitment
 
:  as to any Incremental Term Loan Facility, the date (which shall be a Business Day) specified in the related Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice as the first date on which Incremental Term Loans will be made available thereunder.
Incremental Term Loan Closing Date
 
:  as defined in the definition of the term Facility.
Incremental Term Loan Facility
 
:  as to any Incremental Term Loan Facility, the maturity date specified in the related Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice.
Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date
 
:  as defined in Section 2.31(b).
Incremental Term Loans
 
:  of any Person at any date, all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money.
Indebtedness
 
:  senior, unsecured, long-term Indebtedness of the Company.
Index Debt
 
:  each Domestic Subsidiary listed on Schedule 1.1D.
Initial Subsidiary Guarantor
 
:  the collective reference to all rights, priorities and privileges with respect to intellectual property, whether arising under United States, multinational or foreign laws or otherwise, including copyrights, copyright licenses, patents, patent licenses, trademarks, trademark licenses, technology, know-how and processes, and all rights to sue at law or in equity for any infringement or other impairment thereof, including the right to receive all proceeds and damages therefrom.
Intellectual Property
 
:  (a) as to any ABR Loan (other than any Swingline Loan) or Canadian Base Rate Loan, the 15 day of each March, June, September and December to occur while such Loan is outstanding and the final maturity date of such Loan, (b) as to any Eurocurrency Loan, Eurocurrency Competitive Loan having an Interest Period of three months or less or any Money Market Rate Loan, the last day of such Interest Period, (c) as to any Eurocurrency Loan or Eurocurrency Competitive Loan having an Interest Period longer than three months, each day that is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period, (d) as to any Fixed Rate Loan, the maturity date of such Loan and (e) as to any Loan (other than any Revolving Loan that is an ABR Loan but including any Swingline Loan that is an ABR Loan), the date of any repayment or prepayment made in respect thereof.
Interest Payment Date
th
 
:  (a) as to any Eurocurrency Loan or Eurocurrency Competitive Loan, (i) initially, the period commencing on the borrowing or conversion date, as the case may be, with respect to such Loan and ending one, two, three or six (or, if agreed to by all Lenders under the relevant Facility, nine or twelve) months (or, in the case of any Eurocurrency Competitive Loan, one, two or three weeks) thereafter, as selected by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower in its notice of borrowing, Competitive Bid Request or notice of conversion, as the case may be, given with respect thereto; and (ii) thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the next preceding Interest Period applicable to such Loan and ending one, two, three or six (or, if agreed to by all Lenders under the relevant Facility, nine or twelve) months thereafter, as selected by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower by irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the date that is three Business Days prior to the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, (b) as to any Money Market Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date of such Money Market Rate Loan, and ending on a date agreed upon by the Company or the relevant Domestic Subsidiary Borrower and the Swingline Lender which is at least one and not more than 10 Business Days after the making of such Money Market Rate Loan and (c) with respect to a Fixed Rate Loan, the period (which shall be not less than seven days or more than 360 days) commencing on the Borrowing Date thereof and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter; that, all of the foregoing provisions relating to Interest Periods are subject to the following:
Interest Period
provided
 
19
(A)           if any Interest Period would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of Revolving Loans, Term Loans or Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, the result of such extension would be to carry such Interest Period into another calendar month in which event such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
 
(B)           the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower may not select an Interest Period under a particular Facility that would extend beyond the Revolving Termination Date then in effect or beyond the date final payment is due on the Term Loans, as the case may be; and
 
(C)           in the case of Revolving Loans, Term Loans or Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month.
 
:  each Lender or any Applicable Lending Office thereof that has an L/C Commitment, in the capacity as issuer of any Letter of Credit.
Issuing Lender
 
:  Jaguar Limited, a company organized under the laws of England.
Jaguar
 
:  all Trademarks owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries consisting of or containing Jaguar or any variation or simulation thereof.
Jaguar Trade Name
 
:  as defined in Section 10.13.
judgment currency
 
:  Land Rover, a company organized under the laws of England.
Land Rover
 
:  Land Rover Holdings, a company organized under the laws of England.
Land Rover Holdings
 
:  all Trademarks owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries consisting of or containing Land Rover or any variation or simulation thereof.
Land Rover Trade Name
 
: as to any Lender (or Applicable Lending Office thereof), the obligation of such Person to issue Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 3 (including any Existing Letters of Credit issued by such Lender) in an aggregate Outstanding Amount at any time not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading L/C Commitment opposite such Persons name on Schedule 1.1A, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to Section 3.11.
L/C Commitment
 
:  at any time, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Letters of Credit.
L/C Obligations
 
20
:  (i) prior to December 3, 2009, the collective reference to all the Domestic Revolving Lenders (other than any Issuing Lender) and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, the collective reference to all the 2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders (other than any Issuing Lender).
L/C Participants
 
:  $2,000,000,000; that, from time to time, the Company may increase the L/C Sublimit by notice to the Administrative Agent.
L/C Sublimit
provided
 
: with respect to any Lender, that such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.  For the avoidance of doubt,  a Lender that participates in a government support program will not be considered to be the subject of a proceeding of the types described in this definition solely by reason of its participation in such government support program.
Lender Insolvency Event
 
:  as defined in the preamble hereto; , that unless the context otherwise requires, each reference herein to the Lenders shall be deemed to include any Conduit Lender.
Lenders
provided
 
:  as defined in Section 3.1(a).
Letter of Credit
 
:  as defined in Section 3.3.
Letter of Credit Fee
 
:  any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest, charge, statutory deemed trust, conditional sale or other title retention agreement or other similar encumbrance.
Lien
 
:  any loan made by any Lender pursuant to this Agreement (including any Acceptance).
Loan
 
:  this Agreement, the Security Documents, the Guarantee, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the Notes, each Joinder Agreement and any amendment, waiver, supplement or other modification to any of the foregoing.
Loan Documents
 
:  the Company, each Subsidiary Borrower and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Loan Parties
 
:  as defined in Section 2.30.
Local Facility Amendment
 
:  with respect to any Facility, the holders of more than 50% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Term Loans outstanding under such Facility or the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments outstanding under such Facility (or, in the case of any Revolving Facility, at any time after all of the Revolving Commitments thereunder shall have expired or terminated, the holders of more than 50% of the aggregate amount of Revolving Extensions of Credit thereunder).
Majority Facility Lenders
 
:  the holders of more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Total Revolving Commitments (or, at any time after the Revolving Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the holders of more than 50% of the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit).
Majority Revolving Lenders
 
:  the prepayment of outstanding Term Loans (including any Incremental Term Loans but excluding any Tranche B-2 Term Loans) and term loans under any Permitted Additional Senior Facilities, together with an offer to repurchase any outstanding Permitted Additional Notes (to the extent required by the terms thereof), on a basis according to the Outstanding Amounts thereof at the time of such prepayment and offer to repurchase.
Mandatory Prepayment
pro
rata
 
21
:  a Subsidiary of the Company which owns or leases a Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property.
Manufacturing Subsidiary
 
:  as to any Eurocurrency Competitive Loan, the margin to be added (or subtracted) from the Eurocurrency Base Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified in the Competitive Bid relating to such Loan.
Margin
 
:  a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (b) the validity and enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Trustee and the Lenders hereunder or thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
 
:  a Guarantee Obligation with an Outstanding Amount in excess of $100,000,000 in respect of Indebtedness having an aggregate Outstanding Amount in excess of $100,000,000.
Material Guarantee
 
:  any Issuing Lender with an L/C Commitment of $250,000,000 or more.
Material Issuing Lender
 
:   any Swingline Lender with a Swingline Commitment of $250,000,000 or more.
Material Swingline Lender
 
:  (a) any Existing Notes and (b) any unsecured Indebtedness or preferred Capital Stock of the Company having an aggregate Outstanding Amount or liquidation preference, as the case may be, in excess of $250,000,000.
Material Unsecured Indebtedness
 
: for any day, a fixed rate per annum as agreed between any Swingline Lender and the Company pursuant to Section 2.12.
Money Market Rate
 
: Swingline Loans the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the Money Market Rate.
Money Market Rate Loans
 
:  Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
Moodys
 
:  each property listed on Schedule 1.1E, as to which the Collateral Trustee for the benefit of the Secured Parties shall be granted a Lien pursuant to the Mortgages.
Mortgaged Property
 
:  each of the mortgages and deeds of trust made by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in favor of, or for the benefit of, the Collateral Trustee for the benefit of the Secured Parties, substantially in the form of Exhibit E (with such changes thereto as the Company and the Administrative Agent reasonably agree are advisable under the law of the jurisdiction in which such mortgage or deed of trust is to be recorded).
Mortgages
 
:  any 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment.
Multicurrency Revolving Commitment
 
22
:  as to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender of any Class at any time, an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of all Multicurrency Revolving Loans of such Class held by such Lender then outstanding.
Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  any 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Lender or 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Lender.
Multicurrency Revolving Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.6(a).
Multicurrency Revolving Loans
 
:  as to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender at any time, the 2011 Multicurrency Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time or the 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Percentage of such Lender at such time, as applicable.
Multicurrency Revolving Percentage
 
:  with respect to any asset of any Person (a) other than accounts receivable, the gross book value of such asset on the balance sheet of such Person, depreciation in respect of such asset on such balance sheet and (b) with respect to accounts receivable, the gross book value thereof, any specific reserves attributable thereto.
Net Book Value
minus
minus
 
:  (a) the gross cash proceeds (including payments from time to time in respect of installment obligations, if applicable, and cash equivalents) received (b) the sum of:
Net Cash Proceeds
less
 
(i)          the amount, if any, of all taxes paid or estimated to be payable by the Company or any Subsidiary or affiliate thereof in connection with such transaction,
 
(ii)         the amount of any reasonable reserve established in accordance with GAAP against any liabilities (other than any taxes deducted pursuant to clause (i) above) (A) associated with the assets that are the subject of such transaction and (B) retained by the Company or any Subsidiary or affiliate thereof,
 
(iii)        the amount of any indebtedness secured by a Lien on the assets that are the subject of the transaction to the extent that the instrument creating or evidencing such indebtedness requires that such indebtedness be repaid upon consummation of such transaction (but excluding Indebtedness referred to in the definition of Mandatory Prepayment), and
 
(iv)        fees and expenses attributable to the transaction.
 
:  as defined in Section 2.30.
New Local Facility
 
:  as defined in Section 2.30.
New Local Facility Lender
 
: as defined in Section 2.10(i).
Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.26(a).
Non-Excluded Taxes
 
: as defined in Section 2.33.
Non-Extending Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.26(d).
Non-U.S. Lender
 
:  the collective reference to any promissory note evidencing Loans.
Notes
 
:  as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Notice of Acceleration
 
23
:  the Credit Agreement Obligations as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Obligations
 
:  at any time, Euro, Pounds Sterling, Swedish Kroner and such other currencies which are freely convertible into Dollars and are freely traded and available in the London interbank eurocurrency market with the consent of the Administrative Agent and the Majority Facility Lenders under the Multicurrency Revolving Facility of the applicable Class (or, in the case of Letters of Credit, the applicable Issuing Lender).
Optional Currency
 
:  as defined in Section 10.13.
original currency
 
:  each of the trademarks listed under the heading Other Principal Trade Names on Schedule 1.1F and all other Trademarks consisting of or containing any of the trademarks listed under the heading Other Principal Trade Names on Schedule 1.1F or any variation or simulation thereof.
Other Principal Trade Names
 
:  any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property, intangible or mortgage recording taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
 
:  (a) with respect to Indebtedness, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof, (b) with respect to bankers acceptances, letters of credit or letters of guarantee, the aggregate undrawn, unexpired face amount thereof the aggregate unreimbursed drawn amount thereof, (c) with respect to hedging obligations, the aggregate amount recorded by the Company or any Subsidiary as its termination liability thereunder, (d) with respect to cash management obligations or guarantees, the aggregate maximum amount thereof (i) that the relevant cash management provider is entitled to assert as such as agreed from time to time by the Company or any Subsidiary and such provider or (ii) the principal amount of the Indebtedness being guaranteed or, if less, the maximum amount of such guarantee set forth in the relevant guarantee and (e) with respect to any other obligations, the aggregate outstanding amount thereof.
Outstanding Amount
plus
 
:  with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, and/or any Person owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
Parent Company
 
:  as defined in Section 10.6(c).
Participant
 
:  the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA (or any successor).
PBGC
 
: Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property as defined in the Existing Notes Indentures.
PDMP
 
:  at any time, the ratio of (a) the Borrowing Base Amount of all Eligible PDMP PP&E at such time to (b) the Net Book Value of all PDMP included in the Collateral at such time.
PDMP Ratio
 
: notes or other Indebtedness (other than any Indebtedness under Permitted Additional Senior Facilities) issued (or guaranteed) by the Company (a) the terms of which do not provide for any scheduled repayment or mandatory redemption prior to the date that is one year after the Term Loan Maturity Date as in effect on the Closing Date (other than customary offers to purchase upon a change of control, asset sale or event of loss and acceleration rights after an event of default), (b) the covenants, events of default, guarantees and other terms of which (other than interest rate, call features and redemption premiums), taken as a whole, are not more restrictive to the Company than the terms of this Agreement; that a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, together with a description of the material terms and conditions of such Indebtedness or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirement and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirement unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees), (c) with respect to which, after giving effect to the incurrence and application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.00 to 1.00 and (d) such facility (or guarantee) has been designated as Additional Notes Debt pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Permitted Additional Notes
provided
 
24
:  additional term loan or revolving credit facilities of (or guaranteed by) by the Company and any Indebtedness incurred (or other extensions of credit made) thereunder satisfying the conditions set forth in Section 2.31 or Section 2.32 with respect to the establishment of an Incremental Term Loan Facility or an Incremental Revolving Facility, as applicable; that (a) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the establishment of such facility, together with a description of the material terms and conditions thereof or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirement and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirement unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees), (b) such facility is established pursuant to a separate agreement or instrument with the lenders thereof and (c) such facility has been designated as Additional Credit Agreement Debt pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Permitted Additional Senior Facilities
provided
 
:  Designated Hedging Obligations, Designated Cash Management Obligations, reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit and bank guarantees, guarantees provided by the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor (including in respect of Indebtedness) and other obligations of the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor that do not constitute Indebtedness that have been designated by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement as Permitted First Lien Non-Loan Exposure; that after giving effect to such designation and any application of the proceeds thereof the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.00 to 1.00; , , that the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Permitted First Lien Non-Loan Exposure shall not exceed $1,500,000,000 at any time.
Permitted First Lien Non-Loan Exposure
provided
pro
forma
provided
further
 
: collectively, Permitted Phase I Government Debt and Permitted Phase II Government Debt; , that the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Permitted Phase I Government Debt and Permitted Phase II Government Debt shall not exceed, at any time, $10,400,000,000 plus, with respect to any Permitted Refinancing of any such Permitted Phase I Government Debt or Permitted Phase II Government Debt, additional principal in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of accrued interest in respect thereof and the amount of all fees, expenses and premiums incurred in connection with such Permitted Refinancing.
Permitted Government Debt
provided
 
:  holders of the Companys Class B Stock on the Closing Date and other holders of such Capital Stock from time to time; that such holders satisfy the qualifications set forth in clauses (i) through (vii) of subsection 2.2 of Article Fourth of the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation as in effect on the Closing Date.
Permitted Holders
provided
 
25
 means:
Permitted Liens
 
(a)           Liens for taxes, assessments, governmental charges and utility charges, in each case that are not yet subject to penalties for non-payment or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company in conformity with GAAP;
provided
 
(b)           carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens, construction or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
 
(c)           permits, servitudes, licenses, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances imposed by applicable law or incurred in the ordinary course of business or minor imperfections in title to real property that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
 
(d)           leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses of assets (including, without limitation, real property and intellectual property rights) granted to others that do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and licenses of trademarks and intellectual property rights in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)           pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business or statutory Liens imposed in connection with workers compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security or pension benefits or Liens incurred or pledges or deposits made to secure the performance of bids, tenders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), statutory obligations, and surety, appeal, customs or performance bonds and similar obligations, or deposits as security for contested taxes or import or customs duties or for the payment of rent, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(f)            Liens arising from UCC financing statement filings (or similar filings) regarding or otherwise arising under leases entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or in connection with sales of accounts, payment intangibles, chattel paper or instruments;
 
(g)           purchase money Liens on property (other than shares of Capital Stock or Indebtedness) existing at the time of acquisition (including acquisition through amalgamation, merger or consolidation) or to secure the payment of any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 60 days after, the acquisition of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure Indebtedness provided, or guaranteed, by a Governmental Authority to finance research and development, limited in each case to the property purchased (or developed) with the proceeds thereof;
 
(h)           Liens in existence on the Closing Date; that no such Lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Closing Date and that the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased (except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement);
provided
 
(i)            Liens on property or Capital Stock of a Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; , that such Liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other Person becoming a Subsidiary; , , that any such Lien may not extend to any other property owned by the Company or any Subsidiary;
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
26
(j)            Liens on property at the time the Company or a Subsidiary acquires the property, including any acquisition by means of a merger or consolidation with or into the Company or any Subsidiary; , , that such Liens are not created, incurred or assumed in connection with, or in contemplation of, such acquisition; , , that such Liens may not extend to any other property owned by the Company or any Subsidiary;
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
(k)           any Lien securing the renewal, refinancing, replacing, refunding, amendment, extension or modification, as a whole or in part, of any indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by clause (g), (h), (i), (j), (o) and (x) of this definition or this paragraph (k) without any change in the assets subject to such Lien
 
(l)            any Lien arising out of claims under a judgment or award rendered or claim filed so long as such judgments, awards or claims do not constitute an Event of Default;
 
(m)          any Lien consisting of rights reserved to or vested in any Governmental Authority by any statutory provision;
 
(n)           Liens created in the ordinary course of business in favor of banks and other financial institutions over credit balances of any bank accounts held at such banks or financial institutions or over investment property held in a securities account, as the case may be, to facilitate the operation of cash pooling and/or interest set-off arrangements in respect of such bank accounts or securities accounts in the ordinary course of business;
 
(o)           Liens created pursuant to (and Liens permitted by) the Collateral Trust Agreement and the Security Documents (other than in respect of Permitted Second Lien Debt and including, for the avoidance of doubt, Permitted First Lien Non-Loan Exposure); that (except as provided in clause (y) below) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Incremental Facilities (for the avoidance of doubt, the Tranche B-2 Term Facility is not an Incremental Facility) and any Revolving Commitment Increase (including unused commitments under any Incremental Revolving Facility or Revolving Commitment Increase), Permitted Additional Senior Facilities (including any unused commitments thereunder) and Permitted Additional Notes at any time shall not exceed $2,000,000,000; , that (x) in the case of any Incremental Facilities, Revolving Commitment Increases, Permitted Additional Senior Facilities and/or Permitted Additional Notes either (A) the Mazda Shares owned by the Company as of the Closing Date shall have been pledged to the Collateral Trustee, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, as Collateral or (B) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of any such Incremental Facilities and any such Revolving Commitment Increase (including unused commitments under any Incremental Revolving Facility or Revolving Commitment Increase), Permitted Additional Senior Facilities (including any unused commitments thereunder) and Permitted Additional Notes shall not exceed the sum of (1) the aggregate principal amount of Term Loans optionally repaid since the Closing Date or that are paid at maturity (including in connection with any refinancing thereof with the proceeds of additional Incremental Facilities, Revolving Commitment Increases, Permitted Additional Senior Facilities or Permitted Additional Notes), (2) the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments in effect on the Closing Date ( any increases in the Revolving Commitments occurring after the Closing Date, which, together with the Revolving Commitments in effect on the Closing Date, do not exceed $11,485,000,000) that have been terminated or have expired since the Closing Date (including in connection with any refinancing thereof with an Incremental Revolving Facility or Revolving Commitment Increase, but excluding any termination of Revolving Commitments due to their conversion into Tranche B-2 Term Loans on December 3, 2009 and net of the amount of any increase pursuant to clause (y)) and (y) notwithstanding the limitations set forth in the foregoing clause (x), additional Incremental Revolving Facilities and Revolving Commitment Increases may be established (and extensions of credit made thereunder) in an amount not to exceed the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments in effect on the Closing Date ( any increases in the Revolving Commitments occurring after the Closing Date, which, together with the Revolving Commitments in effect on the Closing Date, do not exceed $11,485,000,000), that have been terminated or have expired since the Closing Date (excluding any termination of Revolving Commitments due to their conversion into Tranche B-2 Term Loans on December 3, 2009 and reduced by any portion thereof allocated to increase the basket in clause (x));
provided
provided
further
plus
plus
plus
 
27
(p)           Liens securing Permitted Second Lien Debt;
 
(q)           Liens in favor of lessors pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions to the extent the Disposition of the assets subject to any such sale and leaseback transaction is permitted under this Agreement;
 
(r)            Liens securing Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary owing to the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor;
 
(s)           Liens under industrial revenue, municipal or similar bonds;
 
(t)            Liens on securities accounts (other than Liens to secure Indebtedness);
 
(u)           statutory Liens incurred or pledges or deposits made in favor of a Governmental Authority to secure the performance of obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under Environmental Laws to which any assets of the Company or any such Subsidiaries are subject;
 
(v)           a Lien granted by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to a landlord to secure the payment of arrears of rent in respect of leased properties in the Province of Quebec leased from such landlord, provided that such Lien is limited to the assets located at or about such leased properties;
 
(w)           servicing agreements, development agreements, site plan agreements and other agreements with Governmental Authorities pertaining to the use or development of any of the property and assets of the Company consisting of real property, same are complied with; and
provided
 
(x)            Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses securing obligations or other liabilities of the Company or any Guarantor; that the Outstanding Amount of all such obligations and liabilities shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time.
provided
 
:  Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor that has been designated Second Priority Additional Debt pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement and designated as Permitted Phase I Government Debt hereunder; , that (x) (a) such Indebtedness is provided by the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof) in connection with the U.S. Department of Energys Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program (the ) authorized by section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, as amended from time to time, or any successor, replacement or similar program thereto, (b) with respect to (i) interest rate methodology, (ii) fees, (iii) amortization, (iv) final maturity date, (v) collateral, liens, priority and intercreditor arrangements and (vi) negative covenants (including the absence of financial covenants), such Indebtedness is not on terms that are materially less favorable to the Company or the Lenders than the terms set forth in the Conditional Commitment Letter (including the term sheet attached thereto), dated as of June 23, 2009, by and between the Company and the U.S. Department of Energy, (c) such Indebtedness is on terms, taken as a whole, that are not more restrictive to the Company than the terms of this Agreement (other than with respect to interest rate, fees, call features or premiums), and (d) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Permitted Phase I Government Debt shall not exceed $5,937,000,000 or (y) such Indebtedness is a Permitted Refinancing of Permitted Phase I Government Debt; , , that a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, together with a description of the material terms and conditions of such Indebtedness or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirements and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirements unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees).
Permitted Phase I Government Debt
provided
ATVM Program
provided
further
 
28
: Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor that has been designated Second Priority Additional Debt pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement and designated as Permitted Phase II Government Debt hereunder; , that (x) (a) such Indebtedness is provided by (i) the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof) or (ii) a commercial bank and guaranteed by the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof), in each case, in connection with the ATVM Program or any successor, replacement or similar program thereto, (b) the final maturity date thereof shall not be earlier than six months after the later of the Revolving Termination Date and the Term Loan Maturity Date, in each case, in effect at the date of incurrence of such Indebtedness, (c) the weighted average life to maturity of such Indebtedness shall be longer than the weighted average life to maturity of the Term Loans then outstanding, (d) such Indebtedness is on terms, taken as a whole, that are not more restrictive to the Company than the terms of this Agreement (other than with respect to interest rate, fees, call features or premiums), and (e) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Permitted Phase II Government Debt shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $7,000,000,000 and (ii) an amount equal to $10,400,000,000 less the Outstanding Amount of Permitted Phase I Government Debt then outstanding or (y) such Indebtedness is a Permitted Refinancing of Permitted Phase II Government Debt ; , , that a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, together with a description of the material terms and conditions of such Indebtedness or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirements and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirements unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees).
Permitted Phase II Government Debt
provided
provided
further
 
:  any Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund, other Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be); that:
Permitted Refinancing
provided
 
(a)           the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) does not exceed the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of the Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) so extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus all accrued interest thereon and the amount of all fees, expenses and premiums incurred in connection therewith);
 
29
(b)           (i) in the case of a Permitted Refinancing of Permitted Second Lien Debt, such Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) (A) has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of the Permitted Second Lien Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded and (B) has a weighted average life to maturity equal to or greater than the weighted average life to maturity of the Permitted Second Lien Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded, and (ii) in the case of a Permitted Refinancing of Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) other than Permitted Second Lien Debt, such Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) (A) has a final maturity date later than the earlier of (x) the Term Loan Maturity Date and (y) the final maturity date of the Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded and (B) has a weighted average life to maturity equal to or greater than the shorter of (x) the weighted average life to maturity of the Term Loans and (y) the weighted average life to maturity of the Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
 
(c)           other than with respect to Permitted Phase I Government Debt, the terms of such Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be), taken as a whole, are not more restrictive to the applicable obligor than the Indebtedness (or preferred Capital Stock, as the case may be) being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (other than with respect to interest rates, fees, liquidation preferences, premiums and no call periods); , , with respect to Permitted Phase II Government Debt, such Indebtedness is provided by (i) the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof) or (ii) a commercial bank and guaranteed by the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof), in each case, in connection with the ATVM Program or any successor, replacement or similar program thereto; and
provided
however
 
(d)           with respect to Permitted Phase I Government Debt, (i) the terms of such Indebtedness, taken as a whole, are not materially more restrictive to the applicable obligor than the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded and (ii) such Indebtedness is provided by the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof) in connection with the ATVM Program or any successor, replacement or similar program thereto.
 
:  collectively, Primary Second Lien Debt and Permitted Government Debt. Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, the Company may redesignate Permitted Second Lien Debt as Primary Second Lien Debt, Permitted Phase I Government Debt or Permitted Phase II Government Debt, as applicable, from time to time with at least five Business Days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent; , that concurrently with such redesignation, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such redesignated Primary Second Lien Debt, Permitted Phase I Government Debt or Permitted Phase II Government Debt, as applicable, satisfies the requirements set forth in the definitions of Primary Second Lien Debt, Permitted Phase I Government Debt or Permitted Phase II Government Debt, as applicable, and such redesignated Primary Second Lien Debt, Permitted Phase I Government Debt or Permitted Phase II Government Debt, as applicable, shall be deemed to satisfy such requirements unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees).
Permitted Second Lien Debt
provided
 
30
:  an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity of whatever nature.
Person
 
:  at a particular time, any employee pension benefit plan (other than a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) that is subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code and in respect of which the Company or a Commonly Controlled Entity is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an employer as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
 and :  the lawful money of the United Kingdom.
Pounds Sterling
 
: as set forth on Schedule 1.1G.
Pricing Grid
 
: Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary that (a) has been designated Second Priority Additional Debt pursuant to the Collateral Trust Agreement and designated as Primary Second Lien Debt hereunder, (b) is on terms, taken as a whole, that are not more restrictive to the Company than the terms of this Agreement (other than in respect of interest rates, fees, call features or premiums); that a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, together with a description of the material terms and conditions of such Indebtedness or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirement and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirement unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees) and (c) has a final maturity date no earlier than six months after the later of (i) the maturity date of any Term Loans (including any Incremental Term Loans) outstanding at such time and (ii) the maturity date of any Permitted Additional Notes outstanding at such time; that the Outstanding Amount thereof shall not exceed $4,000,000,000 at any time. Any Indebtedness that constituted Permitted Second Lien Debt prior to the Third Amendment Effective Date shall constitute Primary Second Lien Debt thereafter.
Primary Second Lien Debt
provided
provided
 
:  the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in connection with extensions of credit to borrowers).
Prime Rate
 
:  any plant in the United States owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, the gross book value (without deduction of any depreciation reserves) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeds 0.5% of Consolidated Net Automotive Tangible Assets and more than 75% of the total production measured by value (as determined by any two of the following: the Chairman of the Board of the Company, its President, any Executive Vice President of the Company, any Group Vice President of the Company, any Vice President of the Company, its Treasurer or its Controller) of which in the last fiscal year prior to said date (or such lesser period prior thereto as the plant shall have been in operation) consisted of one or more of the following: cars or trucks or related parts and accessories or materials for any of the foregoing. In the case of a plant not yet in operation or of a plant newly converted to the production of a different item or items, the total production of such plant and the composition of such production for purposes of this definition shall be deemed to be the Companys best estimate (determined as aforesaid) of what the actual total production of such plant and the composition of such production will be in the 12 months following the date as of which the determination is being made.
Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property
 
31
:  each of the trademarks listed under the heading Principal Trade Names on Schedule 1.1F and all other Trademarks consisting of or containing any of the trademarks listed under the heading Principal Trade Names on Schedule 1.1F or any variation or simulation thereof.
Principal Trade Names
 
:  in relation to any period for which the Eurocurrency Base Rate is to be determined hereunder, the Business Day on which quotations would ordinarily be given by prime banks in the London interbank market (or, if the Currency in relation to which such rate is determined is Euro, the European interbank market) for deposits in the Currency in relation to which such rate is to be determined for delivery on the first day of that period; that, if for any such period quotations would ordinarily be given on more than one date, the Quotation Date for that period shall be the last of those dates.
Quotation Date
provided
 
:  as defined in Section 2.12.
Refunded Swingline Loans
 
:  as defined in Section 10.6(b).
Register
 
:  Regulation U of the Board as in effect from time to time.
Regulation U
 
: as defined in Section 3.5
Reimbursement Date
 
:  the obligation of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower to reimburse an Issuing Lender pursuant to Section 3.5 for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit.
Reimbursement Obligation
 
:  as defined in Section 10.1(c).
Replaced Term Loan
 
:  as defined in Section 10.1(c).
Replacement Term Loan
 
:  at any time, Lenders with Aggregate Exposures constituting a majority of the Aggregate Exposures of all Lenders.
Required Lenders
 
:  as to any Person, the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to and binding upon such Person and any of its property, and to which such Person and any of its property is subject.
Requirements of Law
 
:  the chief executive officer, president, chief accounting officer, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or, for purposes of Section 6.6 only, the secretary  of the Company.
Responsible Officer
 
:  as defined in Section 7.6.
Restricted Payments
 
:  the collective reference to Ford Capital B.V., Ford Espana S.A., Ford Automotive Holdings, Ford Deutschland Holding Gmbh, Grupo Ford, Ford Canada, Ford Argentina, Ford South Africa and Ford Brazil, and each of their respective Subsidiaries (excluding any such Subsidiaries that are bona fide joint ventures).
Restricted Pledgee Group
 
:  as defined in Section 2.32.
Revolving Commitment Increase
 
32
:  as to any Revolving Commitment Increase, the date (which shall be a Business Day) specified in the related Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice as the date on such Revolving Commitment Increase shall be effective.
Revolving Commitment Increase Date
 
:  with respect to any Lender, the period from and including the Closing Date to the Revolving Termination Date applicable to such Lender.
Revolving Commitment Period
 
:  the Domestic Revolving Commitments, the Canadian Revolving Commitments and the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.  To the extent any Incremental Revolving Facility or New Local Facility is established, the Revolving Commitments shall, to the extent appropriate, include commitments under such Facilities.
Revolving Commitments
 
:  the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Class of Domestic Revolving Commitments, the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Class of Canadian Revolving Commitments and the Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Class of Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.  To the extent any Incremental Revolving Facility or New Local Facility is established, Revolving Extensions of Credit shall, to the extent appropriate, include the Outstanding Amount of any extensions of credit under such Facilities.
Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  Domestic Revolving Lenders, Canadian Revolving Lenders and Multicurrency Revolving Lenders.  To the extent any Incremental Revolving Facility or New Local Facility is established, Revolving Lenders shall, to the extent appropriate, include any Lender under such Facilities.
Revolving Lenders
 
:  Domestic Revolving Loans, Canadian Revolving Loans and Multicurrency Revolving Loans.  To the extent any Incremental Revolving Facility or New Local Facility is established, Revolving Loans shall, to the extent appropriate, include Loans made under such Facilities.
Revolving Loans
 
:  as defined in Section 2.24(i).
Revolving Note
 
:  as defined in Section 10.7.
Revolving Obligations
 
:  as to any Lender in respect of any Revolving Facility, the applicable Domestic Revolving Percentage of such Lender, the applicable Canadian Revolving Percentage of such Lender or the applicable Multicurrency Revolving Percentage of such Lender.  To the extent any Incremental Revolving Facility or New Local Facility is established, the Revolving Percentage of any Lender in respect of such Facility shall be determined on a comparable basis.
Revolving Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, with respect to 2011 Revolving Commitments, initially December 15, 2011 and with respect to 2013 Revolving Commitments, initially November 30, 2013, in each case as such date for such Lender may be extended from time to time pursuant to Section 2.33.
Revolving Termination Date
 
:  Standard & Poors Ratings Group and its successors.
S&P
 
: as defined in Section 7.9.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 
:  Canadian Revolving Lenders that are banks named in Schedule I to the Bank Act (Canada).
Schedule I Lender
 
33
:  Canadian Revolving Lenders that are banks named in Schedule II or Schedule III to the Bank Act (Canada), and to be agreed between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Schedules II/III Reference Lenders
 
:  the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto and any analogous Governmental Authority.
SEC
 
:  as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Secured Parties
 
:  the Security Agreement to be executed and delivered by the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor, substantially in the form of Exhibit A.
Security Agreement
 
:  the collective reference to the Security Agreement, the Mortgages, the Trademark Security Agreement and all other security documents hereafter delivered to the Administrative Agent granting a Lien on any property of any Person to secure the Secured Obligations (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement).
Security Documents
 
:  on any date of determination, each Subsidiary Guarantor (a) whose total assets at the last day of the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 were equal to or greater than 10% of the sum of (i) the Consolidated Total Automotive Assets at such date (ii) the equity value of the Capital Stock of FMCC owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company as reflected in the most recent financial statements of FMCC delivered pursuant to Section 6.2 or (b) for the purpose of any particular representation, covenant or default in this Agreement, that, when combined with each other Subsidiary Guarantor that has breached such representation or covenant or is the subject of such default, would constitute a Significant Guarantor under the foregoing clause (a).
Significant Guarantor
plus
 
:  means each Revolving Loan denominated in Kroner or any other currency that is not a Standard Specified Currency as defined in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.
Specified Currency Loan
 
:  with respect to any Person, any corporation, association, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company or other business entity (whether now existing or hereafter organized) of which at least a majority of the Voting Stock is, at the time as of which any determination is being made, owned or controlled by such Person or one or more subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more subsidiaries of such Person.  Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a Subsidiary or to Subsidiaries in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiary
 
:  any Subsidiary that becomes a party hereto pursuant to Section 10.1(d) until such time as such Subsidiary Borrower is removed as a party hereto pursuant to Section 10.1(d).
Subsidiary Borrower
 
:  each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor, each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor and each other Subsidiary (including any joint venture) that becomes a party to the Guarantee and Security Agreement after the Closing Date pursuant to Section 6.7 or otherwise.
Subsidiary Guarantor
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender (or its Applicable Lending Office) to make Swingline Loans pursuant to Section 2.11 in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading Swingline Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A, as the same may be changed from time to time pursuant to Section 2.13.
Swingline Commitment
 
34
:  each Lender that has a Swingline Commitment, in its capacity as the lender of Swingline Loans.
Swingline Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.11.
Swingline Loans
 
:  as defined in Section 2.12.
Swingline Participation Amount
 
:  $2,000,000,000.
Swingline Sublimit
 
:  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Syndication Agents
 
:  any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
 
 means any taxes, charges or assessments, including but not limited to income, sales, use, transfer, rental, ad valorem, value-added, stamp, property, consumption, franchise, license, capital, net worth, gross receipts, excise, occupancy, intangibles or similar tax, charges or assessments.
Taxes
 
:  any Tranche B-1 Term Lender or Tranche B-2 Term Lender.  To the extent any Incremental Term Loans are made hereunder, Term Lenders shall, to the extent appropriate, include Incremental Lenders that hold Incremental Term Loans.
Term Lender
 
:  December 15, 2013.
Term Loan Maturity Date
 
:  Tranche B-1 Term Loans and Tranche B-2 Term Loans.  To the extent any Incremental Term Loans are made hereunder, Term Loans shall, to the extent appropriate, include such Incremental Term Loans.
Term Loans
 
:  as defined in Section 2.24(i).
Term Note
 
:  the Tranche B-1 Term Percentage or Tranche B-2 Term Percentage.
Term Percentage
 
: as defined in the Third Amendment, dated as of July 22, 2009, to this Agreement.
Third Amendment Effective Date
 
:  as defined in Section 4.1.
Third Quarter 2006 10-Q
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Revolving Commitments outstanding under the 2011 Revolving Facilities then in effect.
Total 2011 Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Revolving Extensions of Credit outstanding under the 2011 Revolving Facilities at such time.
Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Revolving Commitments outstanding under the 2013 Revolving Facilities then in effect.
Total 2013 Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Revolving Extensions of Credit outstanding under the 2013 Revolving Facilities at such time.
Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
35
:  at any time, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect, (b) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit then outstanding.
Total Available Revolving Commitments
over
 
:  at any time, the aggregate amount of the Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect.
Total Canadian Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit of the Canadian Revolving Lenders at such time.
Total Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  at any time, the aggregate amount of the Domestic Revolving Commitments then in effect.
Total Domestic Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of the Domestic Revolving Lenders at such time.
Total Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  at any time, the aggregate amount of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then in effect.
Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit of the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders at such time.
Total Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
:  at any time, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Commitments then in effect.
Total Revolving Commitments
 
:  at any time, the aggregate Outstanding Amount of (a) the Revolving Extensions of Credit of the Revolving Lenders at such time (b) Competitive Loans at such time.
Total Revolving Extensions of Credit
plus
 
: trademarks, trade names, business names, trade styles, service marks, logos and other source or business identifiers, and in each case, all goodwill associated therewith, and all registrations and recordations thereof and all rights to obtain such renewals and extensions.
Trademark
 
:  the Trademark Security Agreement to be executed and delivered by the Company and the Collateral Trustee, substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Trademark Security Agreement
 
:  each Lender that holds a Tranche B-1 Term Loan.
Tranche B-1 Term Lender
 
:  the term loans made hereunder on the Closing Date.
Tranche B-1 Term Loans
 
:  as to any Tranche B-1 Term Lender at any time, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of such Lenders Tranche B-1 Term Loans then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate principal amount of the Tranche B-1 Term Loans then outstanding.
Tranche B-1 Term Percentage
 
:  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make a Tranche B-2 Term Loan to the Company in a principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading Tranche B-2 Term Commitment opposite such Lenders name on Schedule 1.1A.
Tranche B-2 Term Commitment
 
36
:  each Lender that has a Tranche B-2 Term Commitment or holds a Tranche B-2 Term Loan.
Tranche B-2 Term Lender
 
:  as defined in Section 2.1(b).
Tranche B-2 Term Loans
 
:  as to any Tranche B-2 Term Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lenders Tranche B-2 Term Commitment then constitutes of the aggregate Tranche B-2 Term Commitments (or, at any time after December 3, 2009, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of such Lenders Tranche B-2 Term Loans then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate principal amount of the Tranche B-2 Term Loans then outstanding).
Tranche B-2 Term Percentage
 
:  any Assignee or Participant.
Transferee
 
:  with respect to any date of determination, the yield to maturity at the time of computation of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) that has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to such date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from such date to the first day after the second anniversary of the Closing Date; , , that if the period from such date to the first day after the second anniversary of the Closing Date is not equal to the constant maturity of a United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the period from such date to the first date after the second anniversary of the Closing Date is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used.
Treasury Rate
provided
however
 
:  (a) as to any Revolving Loan, Term Loan or Acceptance, its nature as an ABR Loan or a Eurocurrency Loan (or, in the case of any Acceptance or Canadian Revolving Loan made in Canadian Dollars, a Canadian Base Rate Loan, Acceptance or Acceptance Equivalent Loan), (b) as to any Competitive Loan, its nature as a Eurocurrency Competitive Loan or a Fixed Rate Loan and (c) as to any Swingline Loan, its nature as a Money Market Loan or an ABR Loan.
Type
 
:  the Uniform Commercial Code.
UCC
 
:  the United States of America.
United States
 
:  the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Branch as its reference rate in effect at its principal office in Toronto, Canada for determining rates applicable to Dollar denominated commercial loans in Canada (the US Base Rate (Canada) not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Branch in connection with extensions of credit to borrowers).
US Base Rate (Canada)
 
:  means Ford VHC AB, a company organized under the laws of Sweden.
Volvo
 
:  means each of Volvo, Volvo Car Holding Corporation or Volvo Car Corporation, in each case so long as such Person is a Subsidiary.
Volvo Group Member
 
37
:  all Trademarks owned by or licensed to the Company and its Subsidiaries consisting of or containing Volvo or any variation or simulation thereof.
Volvo Trade Name
 
:  with respect to any Person, such Persons Capital Stock having the right to vote for election of directors (or the equivalent thereof) of such Person under ordinary circumstances.
Voting Stock
 
1.2           .  i)  As used in this Agreement, the terms listed in Schedule 1.1B shall have the respective meanings set forth in such Schedule 1.1B.  Unless otherwise specified therein, all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in the other Loan Documents or any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto or thereto.
Other Definitional Provisions
 
(b)           As used herein and in the other Loan Documents, and any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto or thereto, (i) accounting terms not defined in Section 1.1 and accounting terms partly defined in Section 1.1, to the extent not defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under GAAP, (ii) the words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation, (iii) the word incur shall be construed to mean incur, create, issue, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist (and the words incurred and incurrence shall have correlative meanings), (iv) the words asset and property shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, Capital Stock, securities, revenues, accounts, leasehold interests and contract rights, (v) references to agreements or other Contractual Obligations shall, unless otherwise specified, be deemed to refer to such agreements or Contractual Obligations as amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time and (vi) references to any Person shall include its successors and assigns.
 
(c)           The words hereof, herein and hereunder and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, shall refer to this Agreement as a whole (including the Schedules and Exhibits hereto) and not to any particular provision of this Agreement (or the Schedules and Exhibits hereto), and Section, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified.
 
(d)           The meanings given to terms defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms.
 
1.3           .
Conversion of Foreign Currencies
 
(a)           Except as otherwise expressly set forth on Schedule 1.1B, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of any amount as required hereby, and a determination thereof by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, rely on any determination made by any Loan Party in any document delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
(b)           For purposes of determining compliance with Section 7.3, 7.4 or 7.8, with respect to any amount of Indebtedness in a currency other than Dollars, the Dollar Equivalent thereof shall be determined based on the Exchange Rate in effect at the time such Indebtedness was incurred.
 
(c)           The Administrative Agent may set up appropriate rounding off mechanisms or otherwise round-off amounts hereunder to the nearest higher or lower amount in whole Dollar or cent to ensure amounts owing by any party hereunder or that otherwise need to be calculated or converted hereunder are expressed in whole Dollars or in whole cents, as may be necessary or appropriate.
 
38
 
2.1           .  (a)  Each Term Lender (as defined in this Agreement as in effect on the Closing Date) made a term loan in Dollars to the Company on the Closing Date in an amount equal to the amount of the Term Commitment (as defined in this Agreement as in effect on the Closing Date) of such Lender.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Amendment Agreement, each Term Loan (as defined in this Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Amendment Agreement) outstanding on the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date will remain outstanding as a Tranche B-1 Term Loan.
Term Commitments
 
(b)           Subject to the terms and conditions of the Amendment Agreement, each Tranche B-2 Lender severally agrees to make (or to cause an Affiliate thereof that is an existing Lender to make) a term loan (a ) in Dollars to the Company in a principal amount not to exceed its Tranche B-2 Term Commitment.  Each of the Tranche B-2 Term Loans shall be borrowed by the Company on December 3, 2009 and shall be funded by converting such principal amount of the then outstanding Revolving Loans of each applicable Lender (such conversion to be allocated ratably among each such Lenders Revolving Loans under the Domestic Revolving Facility, the Multicurrency Revolving Facility and/or the Canadian Revolving Facility, as the case may be) into a Tranche B-2 Term Loan (such conversion, the ).  The Company shall give the Administrative Agent written notice by 12:00 Noon, New York City time on November 30, 2009, specifying the Type that the Tranche B-2 Term Loans will be upon Conversion and, if the Tranche B-2 Term Loans will be Eurocurrency Loans, of the initial Interest Period or Periods thereof.   Upon such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Tranche B-2 Lender thereof.  For the avoidance of doubt, the borrowings under this Section 2.1(b) shall not be subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.2.
Tranche B-2 Term Loan
Conversion
 
(c)           The Term Loans may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or ABR Loans, as determined by the Company and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.2 and 2.19.
 
2.2           .  (a)  The Revolving Commitments under each Revolving Facility as in effect immediately prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date shall remain in effect until the Conversion.  Immediately following the Conversion on December 3, 2009, the Revolving Commitments set forth in Schedule 1.1A under the heading Following the Conversion shall take effect, and all Revolving Extensions of Credit by Lenders with 2013 Revolving Commitments shall automatically become Revolving Extensions of Credit under the corresponding 2013 Revolving Facilities.
Reduction or Increase of Revolving Commitments
 
(b)           The Company shall give the Administrative Agent written notice by 12:00 Noon, New York City time on November 30, 2009, specifying (i) the aggregate amount of 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit that the Company elects to have outstanding on December 3, 2009 (after giving effect to the repayments and borrowings to be made on such date pursuant to this Section 2.2 and the reallocation of participations in outstanding Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 3.4(d) under each 2013 Revolving Facility) (such amount with respect to any 2013 Revolving Facility, the ) and (ii) the Type that the Revolving Loans under each Revolving Facility will be upon Conversion and, if any Revolving Loans will be Eurocurrency Loan, of the initial Interest Period or Periods thereof.  Promptly after receipt of notice of the Conversion Date Revolving Extensions of Credit for each 2013 Revolving Facility, the Administrative Agent shall notify each 2013 Revolving Lender of such notice and of the amount and Class of the 2013 Revolving Loans of such 2013 Revolving Lender to be repaid pursuant to Section 2.2(c)(i) or the amount and Class of 2013 Revolving Loans to be made by such 2013 Revolving Lender pursuant to Section 2.2(c)(ii), as the case may be.
Conversion Date Revolving Extensions of Credit
 
39
(c)           On December 3, 2009:
 
(i)          for any 2013 Revolving Lender whose Revolving Extensions of Credit under any 2013 Revolving Facility immediately following the Conversion (after giving effect to the reallocation of participations in outstanding Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 3.4(d)) exceed its pro rata share of the Conversion Date Revolving Extensions of Credit with respect to such 2013 Revolving Facility, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall repay 2013 Revolving Loans under such 2013 Revolving Facility held by such 2013 Revolving Lender in an amount equal to such excess by paying such amount (together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon) to the Administrative Agent for the account of such 2013 Revolving Lender; and
 
(ii)         for any 2013 Revolving Lender whose Revolving Extensions of Credit under any 2013 Revolving Facility immediately following the Conversion (after giving effect to the reallocation of participations in outstanding Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 3.4(d)) are less than its pro rata share of the Conversion Date Revolving Extensions of Credit with respect to such 2013 Revolving Facility (the amount of such shortfall with respect to any 2013 Revolving Facility, the ), such 2013 Revolving Lender shall make a Revolving Loan under such 2013 Revolving Facility in a principal amount equal toits Top-up Amount with respect to such 2013 Revolving Facility by making such Top-up Amount available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company at the office of the Administrative Agent specified in Section 10.2 prior to 2:00 P.M., New York City time, on December 3, 2009 in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent, which funds will then be made available to the Company by the Administrative Agent;
Top-up Amount
 
 
, that after giving effect to the foregoing, (i) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (ii) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect, (iii) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect, (iii) the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of each 2013 Revolving Lender shall not exceed the amount of such 2013 Revolving Lenders 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitment, (iv) the Dollar Equivalent of each 2013 Revolving Lenders Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the amount of such 2013 Revolving Lenders 2013 Multicurrency Revolving Commitment, and (v) the Dollar Equivalent of each 2013 Revolving Lenders Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the amount of such 2013 Revolving Lenders 2013 Canadian Revolving Commitment.  For the avoidance of doubt, the conversions and borrowings referred to in this Section 2.2 shall not be subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.2.
provided
 
2.3           .  (a)  The Tranche B-1 Term Loan of each Tranche B-1 Term Lender shall be repayable on each date set forth below in an amount equal to such Lenders Tranche B-1 Term Percentage multiplied by the amount set forth below opposite such date:
Repayment of Term Loans
 
40
 
 
 
(b)           The Tranche B-2 Term Loan of each Tranche B-2 Term Lender shall be repayable on each date set forth below in an amount equal to such Lenders Tranche B-2 Term Percentage multiplied by the amount set forth below opposite such date:
 
 
 
41
(c)           The Incremental Term Loans made after the Closing Date, if any, of each Incremental Lender shall be repaid in such installments as are specified in the Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice pursuant to which such Incremental Term Loans were made.
 
2.4           .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Domestic Revolving Lender severally agrees to make revolving credit loans () in Dollars to the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower from time to time during the Revolving Commitment Period applicable to it; that, after giving effect to such borrowing and the use of proceeds thereof, (i) such Lenders Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit do not exceed the amount of such Lenders Domestic Revolving Commitments, (ii) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (iii) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect and (iv) on and after December 3, 2009, (A) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (B) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect.  During the Revolving Commitment Period the Company and any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower may use the Domestic Revolving Commitments by borrowing, prepaying the Domestic Revolving Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.  The Domestic Revolving Loans may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or ABR Loans, as determined by the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.5 and 2.19.
Domestic Revolving Commitments
Domestic Revolving Loans
provided
 
(b)           The Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall repay all outstanding Domestic Revolving Loans of any Class of a Lender on the Revolving Termination Date for such Lender applicable to such Class.
 
2.5           .  The Company and any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower may borrow under any Class of Domestic Revolving Commitments during the applicable Revolving Commitment Period on any Business Day, that the Company or the relevant Domestic Subsidiary Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) prior to (a) 12:00 Noon, New York City time, three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, or (b) 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the date of the proposed borrowing, in the case of ABR Loans), specifying (i) the amount, Class and Type of Domestic Revolving Loans to be borrowed, (ii) the requested Borrowing Date and (iii) in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, the respective lengths of the initial Interest Period(s) therefor.  If no election as to the Type of a Domestic Revolving Loan is specified in any such notice, then the requested borrowing shall be an ABR Loan.  If no Interest Period with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan is specified in any such notice, then the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one months duration.  Each borrowing under the Domestic Revolving Commitments of any Class shall be in an amount equal to $50,000,000 (or, if the then aggregate Available Domestic Revolving Commitments in respect of such Class are less than $50,000,000, such lesser amount) or a whole multiple of $10,000,000 in excess thereof; , that the Swingline Lender holding Swingline Loans of any Class may request, on behalf of the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower, borrowings under the Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class that are ABR Loans in other amounts pursuant to Section 2.12.  Upon receipt of any such notice from the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Domestic Revolving Lender holding Domestic Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class of such notice.  Each Domestic Revolving Lender holding Domestic Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class will make the amount of its share of each borrowing available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower at the Funding Office prior to 2:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Borrowing Date requested by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  Such borrowing will then be made available to the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower by the Administrative Agent crediting the account of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower on the books of such office or such other account as the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower may specify to the Administrative Agent with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the applicable Domestic Revolving Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Procedure for Domestic Revolving Loan Borrowing
provided
provided
pro
rata
 
42
2.6           .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender severally agrees to make (or cause its Applicable Lending Office to make) revolving credit loans () in Dollars or any Optional Currency to the Company or any Foreign Subsidiary Borrower (other than a Canadian Borrower) from time to time during the Revolving Commitment Period applicable to it; that, after giving effect to such borrowing and the use of proceeds thereof, (i) the Dollar Equivalent of such Lenders Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit do not exceed the amount of such Lenders Multicurrency Revolving Commitments, (ii) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (iii) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect and (iv) on and after December 3, 2009, (A) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (B) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect.  During the Revolving Commitment Period the Company and any relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower may use the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments by borrowing, prepaying the Multicurrency Revolving Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.  The Multicurrency Revolving Loans shall be Eurocurrency Loans as notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.7 and 2.19.
Multicurrency Revolving Commitments
Multicurrency Revolving Loans
provided
 
(b)           The Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall repay all outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans of any Class of a Lender on the Revolving Termination Date for such Lender applicable to such Class.
 
2.7           .  The Company and any Foreign Subsidiary Borrower (other than a Canadian Borrower) may borrow under any Class of Multicurrency Revolving Commitments during the applicable Revolving Commitment Period on any Business Day, that the Company or the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) prior to 12:00 Noon, London time, three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, specifying (a) the amount, Class and Currency of Multicurrency Revolving Loans to be borrowed, (b) the requested Borrowing Date and (c) the respective lengths of the initial Interest Period(s) therefor.  If no Interest Period with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan is specified in any such notice, then the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one months duration.  Each borrowing under the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of any Class shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of 10,000,000 of the relevant Currency and no less than an amount which is equal to the Dollar Equivalent of $50,000,000 (or, if the then aggregate Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitments in respect of such Class are less than $50,000,000, such lesser amount).  Upon receipt of any such notice from the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Multicurrency Revolving Lender holding Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class of such notice.  Each Multicurrency Revolving Lender holding Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class will make (or cause its Applicable Lending Office to make) the amount of its share of each borrowing available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower at the Funding Office prior to 2:00 P.M., London time, on the Borrowing Date requested by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  Such borrowing will then be made available to the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower by the Administrative Agent crediting the account of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower on the books of such office or such other account as the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower may specify to the Administrative Agent with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the applicable Multicurrency Revolving Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Procedure for Multicurrency Revolving Loan Borrowing
provided
pro
rata
 
43
2.8           .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Canadian Revolving Lender severally agrees to make (or cause its Applicable Lending Office to make) revolving credit loans () in Dollars to the Company and in Dollars or Canadian Dollars to any Canadian Borrower from time to time during the Revolving Commitment Period applicable to it; that, after giving effect to such borrowing and the use of proceeds thereof, (i) the Dollar Equivalent of such Lenders Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit does not exceed the amount of such Lenders Canadian Revolving Commitments, (ii) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (iii) the Total Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect, (iv) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect and (v) on and after December 3, 2009, (A) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (B) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect.  During the Revolving Commitment Period the Company and any Canadian Borrower may use the Canadian Revolving Commitments by borrowing, prepaying the Canadian Revolving Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.  The Canadian Revolving Loans shall be Eurocurrency Loans or ABR Loans (if denominated in Dollars) or Canadian Base Rate Loans (if denominated in Canadian Dollars) or any combination thereof as notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.9 and 2.19.
Canadian Revolving Commitments
Canadian Revolving Loans
provided
 
(b)           The Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall repay all outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans of any Class of a Lender on the Revolving Termination Date for such Lender applicable to such Class.
 
2.9           .  The Company and any Canadian Borrower may borrow under any Class of Canadian Revolving Commitments during the applicable Revolving Commitment Period on any Business Day; that the Company or the relevant Canadian Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) prior to (a) 12:00 Noon, New York City time, three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, or (b) 12:00 Noon, New York City Time, on the date of the proposed borrowing, in the case of ABR Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans), specifying (i) the amount, Class, Type and Currency of Canadian Revolving Loans to be borrowed, (ii) the requested Borrowing Date, and (iii) in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, the respective amounts of each such Type of Loan and the respective lengths of the initial Interest Period therefor.  If no election as to the Type of a Canadian Revolving Loan denominated in Dollars is specified in any such notice, then the requested borrowing shall be an ABR Loan.  If no Interest Period with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan is specified in any such notice, then the Company or the relevant Canadian Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one months duration.  Each borrowing under the Canadian Revolving Commitments of any Class in Dollars shall be in an amount equal to $50,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof (or, if the then aggregate Available Canadian Revolving Commitments in respect of such Class are less than $50,000,000, such lesser amount).  Each borrowing under the Canadian Revolving Commitments of any Class in Canadian Dollars shall be in an amount equal to C$25,000,000 (or, if the then aggregate Available Canadian Revolving Commitments in respect of such Class are less than C$25,000,000, such lesser amount) or a whole multiple of C$5,000,000 in excess thereof.  Upon receipt of any such notice from the Company or any Canadian Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Canadian Revolving Lender holding Canadian Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class of such notice.  Each Canadian Revolving Lender holding Canadian Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class will make (or cause its Applicable Lending Office to make) the amount of its share of each borrowing available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company or the relevant Canadian Borrower at the Funding Office prior to 2:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Borrowing Date requested by the Company or such Canadian Borrower in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  Such borrowing will then be made available to the Company or the relevant Canadian Borrower by the Administrative Agent crediting the account of the Company or the relevant Canadian Borrower on the books of such office or such other account as the Company or relevant Canadian Borrower may specify to the Administrative Agent with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the applicable Canadian Revolving Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Procedure for Canadian Revolving Loan Borrowing
provided
pro
rata
 
44
2.10           .  (a)  .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Canadian Revolving Lender severally agrees that each Canadian Borrower may issue, under any Class of Canadian Revolving Commitments, Acceptances denominated in Canadian Dollars, in minimum denominations of C$25,000,000 and in whole multiples of C$5,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if the then aggregate Available Canadian Revolving Commitments in respect of such Class are less than C$25,000,000, such lesser amount), each in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.10 from time to time until the Revolving Termination Date applicable to such Canadian Revolving Lender; , that after giving effect to the issuance of such Acceptance and the use of proceeds thereof, (i) the Available Canadian Revolving Commitment of the applicable Class of any Canadian Revolving Lender of such Class shall not be less than zero, (ii) the Total Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect, (iii) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (iv) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect and (v) on and after December 3, 2009, (A) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (B) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect; , , that at all times the outstanding aggregate face amount of all Acceptances made by the Applicable Lending Offices of a Canadian Revolving Lender under the applicable Canadian Revolving Facility shall equal its applicable Canadian Revolving Percentage of the outstanding face amount of all Acceptances made by the Applicable Lending Offices of all Canadian Revolving Lenders of such Class.  For purposes of this Agreement, the full face value of an Acceptance, without discount, shall be used when calculations are made to determine the Outstanding Amount of a Canadian Revolving Lenders Acceptances; that in computing the face amount of Acceptances outstanding, the face amount of an Acceptance in respect of which the Acceptance Obligation has been prepaid by a Canadian Borrower and received by the Canadian Revolving Lender that created the same in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall not be included.
Procedure for Canadian Acceptances
Acceptance Commitment
provided
provided
further
provided
 
45
(b)           .  Each Draft shall be accepted by the Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender, upon the written request of a Canadian Borrower given in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.10, by the completion and acceptance by such Applicable Lending Office of a Draft (i) payable in Canadian Dollars, drawn by a Canadian Borrower on the Applicable Lending Office in accordance with this Agreement, to the order of the Applicable Lending Office and (ii) maturing prior to the Revolving Termination Date in respect of the applicable Class on a Business Day not less than one month nor more than six months after the date of such Draft (and in periods of one month, two months, threes months or, if available, six months, as selected by a Canadian Borrower), excluding days of grace, all as specified in a Drawing Notice to be delivered under paragraph (c) of this Section 2.10.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, all requests for issuances of Acceptances and all selections of periods and maturity dates of Acceptances shall be made pursuant to such elections so that no more than 10 different Acceptance maturity dates shall be outstanding at any one time.
Terms of Acceptance
 
(c)           .  (i)  With respect to each requested acceptance of Drafts, a Canadian Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent a notice of drawing (each, a ), substantially in the form of Exhibit H (which shall be irrevocable and may be by telephone confirmed in writing within one Business Day) to be received prior to 10:00 A.M., Toronto time, at least two Business Days prior to the date of the requested acceptance, specifying:
Drawing Notice and Discount of Acceptances
Drawing Notice
 
(A)          the date on which such Drafts are to be accepted;
 
(B)           the Class of Canadian Revolving Commitments under which such Draft has been requested;
 
(C)           the aggregate face amount of such Drafts;
 
(D)           the maturity date of such Acceptances; and
 
(E)           whether the Canadian Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class must purchase or arrange for the purchase of the Acceptances;
 
that no Canadian Borrower shall deliver a Drawing Notice for Drafts to be accepted between the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date and December 3, 2009.  The Company hereby represents and warrants that there are no Acceptances outstanding on the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date.
provided
 
(ii)         Upon receipt of a Drawing Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class of the contents thereof and of such Canadian Revolving Lenders ratable share of the Acceptances requested thereunder.  The aggregate face amount of the Drafts to be accepted by Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender shall be determined by the Administrative Agent by reference to the respective Canadian Revolving Commitments of the Canadian Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class; that, if the face amount of an Acceptance which would otherwise be accepted by the Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class is not C$5,000,000, or a whole multiple thereof, the face amount shall be increased or reduced by the Administrative Agent, in its sole discretion, to C$1,000,000, or the nearest integral multiple thereof, as appropriate.
provided
 
46
(iii)        On each date upon which Acceptances are to be accepted, the Administrative Agent shall advise the relevant Canadian Borrower of the applicable Discount Rate for the Applicable Lending Office of each Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class.  Not later than 10:00 A.M., Toronto time, on such date each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent specified in Section 5.2, and subject to the Applicable Lending Office of each Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender of the applicable Class making Acceptance Equivalent Loans pursuant to paragraph (i) of this Section 2.10, (A) on the basis of the information supplied by the Administrative Agent, as aforesaid, complete a Draft or Drafts of the relevant Canadian Borrower by filling in the Class, amount, date and maturity date thereof in accordance with the applicable Drawing Notice, (B) duly accept such Draft or Drafts, (C) offer to purchase such Acceptance or Acceptances at the applicable Discount Rate, (D) give the Administrative Agent facsimile or telex notice of such Applicable Lending Offices acceptance of such Draft or Drafts and confirming the Discount Rate at which it discounted the Acceptance or Acceptances and the amount paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Canadian Borrower and (E) remit to the Administrative Agent in Canadian Dollars in immediately available funds an amount equal to the Discount Proceeds.  Upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of such sums from the Applicable Lending Offices of the applicable Canadian Revolving Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall make the aggregate amount thereof available to such Canadian Borrower.
 
(iv)        Each extension of credit hereunder through the acceptance of Drafts shall be made simultaneously and pro rata by the Applicable Lending Office of each of the Canadian Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class in accordance with their respective Canadian Revolving Commitments of such Class.
 
(d)           .  A Canadian Borrower shall agree to sell, and the Applicable Lending Offices of the Canadian Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class shall purchase or arrange for the purchase of, all of the Acceptances in the market and each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class shall provide to the Administrative Agent the Discount Proceeds for the account of such Canadian Borrower.  The Acceptance Fee in respect of such Acceptances may, at the option of the Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class, be set off against the Discount Proceeds payable by such Applicable Lending Office of such Canadian Revolving Lender hereunder.
Sale of Acceptances
 
(e)           .  The relevant Canadian Borrower is obligated, and hereby unconditionally agrees, to pay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of each Applicable Lending Office of each Canadian Revolving Lender of the applicable Class the face amount of each Acceptance created by such Applicable Lending Office in accordance with a Drawing Notice on the maturity date thereof, or on such earlier date as may be required pursuant to provisions of this Agreement.  With respect to each Acceptance which is outstanding hereunder, the relevant Canadian Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent prior to 11:00 A.M., Toronto time, two Business Days prior to the maturity date of such Acceptance (which notice shall be irrevocable) of its intention to either (x) issue Acceptances on such maturity date to provide for the payment of such maturing Acceptance and shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a Drawing Notice with respect thereto or (y) repay the maturing Acceptances on the maturity date.  Any repayment of an Acceptance must be made at or before 2:00 P.M. (Toronto time) on the maturity date of such Acceptance.  If the relevant Canadian Borrower fails to provide such notice to the Administrative Agent or fails to repay the maturing Acceptances, or if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on such maturity date, the relevant Canadian Borrowers obligations in respect of the maturing Acceptances shall be deemed to have been converted on the maturity date thereof into a Canadian Base Rate Loan of the applicable Class in an amount equal to the face amount of the maturing Acceptances.  Each Canadian Borrower waives presentment for payment and any other defense to payment of any amounts due to the Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender in respect of any Acceptances of such Canadian Borrower accepted by such Applicable Lending Office under this Agreement which might exist solely by reason of those Acceptances being held, at the maturity thereof, by that Applicable Lending Office in its own right and each Canadian Borrower agrees not to claim any days of grace if that Applicable Lending Office, as holder, sues such Canadian Borrower on those Acceptances for payment of the amounts payable by such Canadian Borrower thereunder.
Acceptance Obligation
 
47
(f)            .  To enable the Applicable Lending Offices of the Canadian Revolving Lenders to accept Drafts in the manner specified in this Section 2.10, each Canadian Borrower hereby appoints the Applicable Lending Office of each Canadian Revolving Lender as its attorney to sign and endorse on its behalf, in handwriting or by facsimile or mechanical signature as and when deemed necessary by such Applicable Lending Office, blank forms of its Acceptances.  In this respect, it is each Canadian Revolving Lenders responsibility to maintain an adequate supply of blank forms of Acceptances for acceptance under this Agreement.  Each Canadian Borrower recognizes and agrees that all Acceptances signed and/or endorsed on its behalf by the Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender shall bind such Canadian Borrower as fully and effectually as if signed in the handwriting of and duly issued by the proper signing officers of such Canadian Borrower; , that such acts in each case are to be undertaken in accordance with such Canadian Revolving Lenders obligations under this Agreement.  Each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender is hereby authorized to issue such Acceptances endorsed in blank in such face amounts as may be determined by such Applicable Lending Office; that the aggregate amount thereof is equal to the aggregate amount of Acceptances required to be accepted by such Applicable Lending Office.  Drafts drawn by a Canadian Borrower to be accepted as Acceptances shall be signed by a duly authorized officer or officers of such Canadian Borrower or by its attorney-in-fact including any attorney in fact appointed pursuant to this Section 2.10(f).  Each Canadian Borrower hereby authorizes and requests each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender in accordance with each Drawing Notice received from such Canadian Borrower to take the measures with respect to a Draft or Drafts of such Canadian Borrower then in possession of such Applicable Lending Office specified in paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 2.10.  In case any authorized signatory of such Canadian Borrower whose signature shall appear on any Draft shall cease to have such authority before the acceptance of a Draft with respect to such Draft, the obligations of a Canadian Borrower hereunder and under such Acceptance shall nevertheless be valid for all purposes as if such authority had remained in force until such creation.  The Administrative Agent and each Canadian Revolving Lender shall be fully protected in relying upon any instructions received from a Canadian Borrower (orally or otherwise) without any duty to make inquiry as to the genuineness of such instructions.  The Administrative Agent and each Canadian Revolving Lender shall be entitled to rely on instructions received from any Person identifying himself (orally or otherwise) as a duly authorized officer of a Canadian Borrower and shall not be liable for any errors, omissions, delays or interruptions in the transmission of such instructions.
Supply of Drafts and Power of Attorney
provided
provided
 
(g)           .  No Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender shall be responsible or liable for its failure to accept a Draft if the cause of such failure is, in whole or in part, due to the failure of a Canadian Borrower to provide the Drafts or the power of attorney described in paragraph (f) of this Section 2.10 to such Applicable Lending Office on a timely basis nor shall any Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender be liable for any damage, loss or other claim arising by reason of any loss or improper use of any such Draft except loss or improper use arising by reason of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Applicable Lending Office.
Exculpation
 
48
(h)           .  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender shall have any responsibility as to the application of the proceeds by a Canadian Borrower of any discount of any Acceptances.  For greater certainty, each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender may, at any time, purchase Acceptances issued by a Canadian Borrower and may at any time and from time to time hold, sell, rediscount or otherwise dispose of any or all Acceptances accepted and/or purchased by it.
Rights of Canadian Revolving Lender as to Acceptances
 
(i)            .  Whenever a Canadian Borrower delivers a Drawing Notice to the Administrative Agent under this Agreement requesting the Canadian Revolving Lenders of any Class to accept Drafts, an Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender of such Class which cannot or does not as a matter of policy accept Drafts (a ) shall, in lieu of accepting Drafts, make an Acceptance Equivalent Loan.  On each date on which Drafts are to be accepted, subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to the acceptance of Drafts, any Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender of the applicable Class that makes an Acceptance Equivalent Loan, upon delivery by a Canadian Borrower of an executed Discount Note payable to the order of such Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender, will remit to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of such Canadian Borrower the Acceptance equivalent discount proceeds in respect of the Discount Notes issued by such Canadian Borrower to the Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender.  Each Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender may agree, in lieu of receiving any Discount Notes, that such Discount Notes may be uncertificated and the applicable Acceptance Equivalent Loan shall be evidenced by a loan account which such Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender shall maintain in its name, and reference to such uncertificated Discount Notes elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to include reference to the relevant Acceptance Equivalent Loan or loan account, as applicable.
Acceptance Equivalent Loans
Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender
 
(j)            .  The term Acceptance when used in this Agreement shall be construed to include Discount Notes and all terms of this Agreement applicable to Acceptances shall apply equally to Discount Notes evidencing Acceptance Equivalent Loans with such changes as may in the context be necessary (except that no Discount Note may be sold, rediscounted or otherwise disposed of by the Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender making Acceptance Equivalent Loans).  For greater certainty:
Terms Applicable to Discount Notes
 
(A)           a Discount Note shall mature and be due and payable on the same date as the maturity date for Acceptances specified in the applicable Drawing Notice;
 
(B)           an Acceptance Fee will be payable in respect of a Discount Note and shall be calculated at the same rate and in the same manner as the Acceptance Fee in respect of an Acceptance;
 
(C)           a discount applicable to a Discount Note shall be calculated in the same manner and at the Discount Rate that would be applicable to Acceptances accepted by a Schedule II/ III Reference Lender pursuant to the applicable Drawing Notice;
 
(D)           an Acceptance Equivalent Loan made by a Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender will be considered to be part of a Non-Acceptance Canadian Lenders outstanding Acceptances for all purposes of this Agreement; and
 
49
(E)           a Canadian Borrower shall deliver Discount Notes to each Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender and grants to each Non-Acceptance Canadian Lender a power of attorney in respect of the completion and execution of Discount Notes, each in accordance with Section 2.10(f).
 
(k)           .  No Acceptance or Discount Note may be repaid or prepaid prior to the maturity date of such Acceptance or Discount Note, except in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.18(e) or Section 8.
Prepayment of Acceptances and Discount Notes
 
(l)            .  At the option of the Canadian Borrowers and any Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender, Acceptances and Discount Notes under this Agreement to be accepted by such Applicable Lending Office may be issued in the form of depository bills and depository notes, respectively, for deposit with The Canadian Depository for Securities Limited pursuant to the (Canada).  All depository bills and depository notes so issued shall be governed by the (Canada) and the provisions of this Section 2.10.
Depository Bills and Notes Act
Depository Bills and Notes Act
Depository Bills and Notes Act
 
(m)          .  Each Canadian Borrower agrees to pay to each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender a fee (the ) in advance and in Canadian Dollars, at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Revolving Loans which are Eurocurrency Loans, on the date of acceptance of each Acceptance.  All Acceptance Fees shall be calculated on the face amount of the Acceptance issued and computed on the basis of the actual number of days in the term thereof and a year of 365 days.  The Acceptance Fee shall be in addition to any other fees payable to each Applicable Lending Office of a Canadian Revolving Lender in connection with the issuance or discounting of such Acceptance.  The discount rate for Acceptance Fees shall be calculated under terms customary to the practice of the Applicable Lending Offices of Canadian Revolving Lenders and shall be based upon a year of 365 days and the term of such Acceptance.
Acceptance Fee
Acceptance Fee
 
2.11         .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Swingline Lender of any Class agrees to make a portion of the credit otherwise available to the Company and any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower under the Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class from time to time during the applicable Revolving Commitment Period by making swing line loans () in Dollars to the Company and any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans of any Class made by such Swingline Lender outstanding at any time shall not exceed the Swingline Commitment of such Class of such Swingline Lender then in effect (notwithstanding that the Swingline Loans of the applicable Class outstanding at any time, when aggregated with any Swingline Lenders other outstanding Domestic Revolving Loans of such Class, may exceed such Lenders Swingline Commitment of such Class then in effect), (ii) the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall not request any Swingline Loan of any Class if, after giving effect to the making of such Swingline Loan and the use of proceeds thereof, the aggregate amount of the Available Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class would be less than zero and (iii) after giving effect to such borrowing and the use of proceeds thereof, (A) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (B) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments at such time, (C) on and after December 3, 2009, (1) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (2) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (D) the Outstanding Amount of all Swingline Loans shall not exceed the Swingline Sublimit.  During the Revolving Commitment Period in respect of any Class, the Company and any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower may use the Swingline Commitment in respect of such Class by borrowing, repaying and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
Swingline Commitment
Swingline Loans
provided
 
50
(b)           The Swingline Loans may from time to time be (i) ABR Loans, (ii) Money Market Rate Loans or (iii) a combination thereof, as determined by the Company and notified to and, in the case of any Money Market Rate Loan, consented to by the relevant Swingline Lender in accordance herewith.
 
(c)           The Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall repay to the relevant Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan advanced by such Swingline Lender on the earliest of (i) the date that is ten Business Days after the date of such advance, (ii) the applicable Revolving Termination Date then in effect and (iii) the Interest Payment Date with respect thereto.
 
2.12         .  (a)  Whenever the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower desires that a Swingline Lender of any Class make Swingline Loans of such Class it shall give such Swingline Lender telephonic notice confirmed promptly in writing (which telephonic notice must be received by such Swingline Lender not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the proposed Borrowing Date), specifying (i) the amount, Class and Type of Swingline Loan to be borrowed, (ii) with respect to any Money Market Rate Loan, the length of the Interest Period therefor and (iii) the requested Borrowing Date (which shall be a Business Day during the Revolving Commitment Period).  Prior to any such notice, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower may request a quote from the relevant Swingline Lender as to the Money Market Rate that would apply to such Swingline Loan if it were to be a Money Market Rate Loan for the Interest Period specified by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, and such Swingline Lender shall promptly notify the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower whether it is willing to make a Money Market Rate Loan and, if applicable, provide such a quote for such Interest Period.  If the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower accepts such rate, such Swingline Loan shall be a Money Market Rate Loan for such Interest Period bearing interest at such rate.  The relevant Swingline Lender shall promptly confirm such quote with respect to the Money Market Rate Loan to be made in writing.  Each borrowing under the Swingline Commitment of any Class shall be in an amount equal to $25,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.  Not later than 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Borrowing Date specified in a notice in respect of Swingline Loans, such Swingline Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent at the Funding Office an amount in immediately available funds equal to the amount of the Swingline Loan to be made by such Swingline Lender.  The Administrative Agent shall make the proceeds of such Swingline Loan available to the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower on such Borrowing Date by depositing such proceeds in the account of the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower with the Administrative Agent or such other account as the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower may specify to the Administrative Agent in writing on such Borrowing Date in immediately available funds.  Such Swingline Lender shall not make any Swingline Loan in the period commencing on the first Business Day after it receives written notice from the Administrative Agent that one or more of the conditions precedent contained in Section 5.2 shall not on such date be satisfied, and ending when such conditions are satisfied.  The Administrative Agent shall immediately notify the Swingline Lender upon becoming aware that such conditions in Section 5.2 are thereafter satisfied. Such Swingline Lender shall not otherwise be required to determine that, or take notice whether, the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.2 have been satisfied in connection with the making of any Swingline Loan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and any Swingline Lender may at any time and from time to time enter into agreements which provide for procedures for soliciting, extending and funding Swingline Loans to the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower which differ from those specified herein.
Procedure for Swingline Borrowing; Refunding of Swingline Loans
 
(b)           Each Swingline Lender of any Class, at any time and from time to time in its sole and absolute discretion may, on behalf of the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower (each of which hereby irrevocably directs each Swingline Lender to act on its behalf), on one Business Days notice given by such Swingline Lender to the Administrative Agent no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, request each Domestic Revolving Lender of such Class to make, and each Domestic Revolving Lender of such Class hereby agrees to make, a Domestic Revolving Loan of such Class, in an amount equal to such Domestic Revolving Lenders 2011 Domestic Revolving Percentage or 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage, as the case may be, of the aggregate amount of the Swingline Loans of the applicable Class advanced by such Swingline Lender (the ) outstanding on the date of such notice, to repay such Swingline Lender.  Each Domestic Revolving Lender of the applicable Class shall make the amount of such Domestic Revolving Loan of the applicable Class available to the Administrative Agent at the Funding Office in immediately available funds, not later than 10:00 A.M., New York City time, one Business Day after the date of such notice.  The proceeds of such Domestic Revolving Loans shall be immediately made available by the Administrative Agent to the relevant Swingline Lender for application by such Swingline Lender to the repayment of the Refunded Swingline Loans.
Refunded Swingline Loans
 
51
(c)           If prior to the time a Domestic Revolving Loan would have otherwise been made pursuant to Section 2.12(b), one of the events described in Section 8(f) shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Company or if for any other reason, as determined by a Swingline Lender in its sole discretion, Domestic Revolving Loans of the applicable Class may not be made as contemplated by Section 2.12(b), each Domestic Revolving Lender of the applicable Class shall, on the date such Domestic Revolving Loan was to have been made pursuant to the notice referred to in Section 2.12(b), purchase for cash an undivided participating interest in the then outstanding Swingline Loans of the applicable Class by paying to the relevant Swingline Lender an amount (the ) equal to (i) such Domestic Revolving Lenders 2011 Domestic Revolving Percentage or 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage, as the case may be, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans of the applicable Class advanced by such Swingline Lender(s) then outstanding that were to have been repaid with such Domestic Revolving Loans, and any Swingline Loans that are Money Market Rate Loans shall be automatically converted to ABR Loans on such date.
Swingline Participation Amount
times
 
(d)           Whenever, at any time after a Swingline Lender has received from any Domestic Revolving Lender such Lenders Swingline Participation Amount, such Swingline Lender receives any payment on account of the applicable Swingline Loans, such Swingline Lender will distribute to such Lender its Swingline Participation Amount (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lenders participating interest was outstanding and funded and, in the case of principal and interest payments, to reflect such Lenders portion of such payment if such payment is not sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on all Swingline Loans advanced by such Swingline Lender(s) then due); , , that in the event that such payment received by a Swingline Lender is required to be returned, such Domestic Revolving Lender will return to such Swingline Lender any portion thereof previously distributed to it by such Swingline Lender.
pro
rata
provided
however
 
(e)           Each Domestic Revolving Lenders obligation to make the Loans referred to in Section 2.12(b) and to purchase participating interests pursuant to Section 2.12(c) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such Domestic Revolving Lender or the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower may have against the Swingline Lender, the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in Section 5, (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Loan Document by the Company, any Subsidiary Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other Lender or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
 
52
(f)            No Borrower shall request a Swingline Loan with a Borrowing Date between the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date and December 3, 2009.  The Company hereby represents and warrants that there are no Swingline Loans outstanding on the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date.
 
2.13         .  The Company may (a) terminate the Swingline Commitment of any Swingline Lender for any reason upon not less than three Business Days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and such Swingline Lender, (b) add additional Swingline Lenders (with the consent of such Lenders) and (c) increase (with the consent of such Lender) or decrease the Swingline Commitment of any existing Swingline Lender at any time upon notice to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.13.  If the Company shall decide to add a new Swingline Lender under this Agreement, then the Company may appoint from among the Domestic Revolving Lenders a new Swingline Lender, with the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), whereupon such Lender shall become a Swingline Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the rights, powers and duties of a Swingline Lender hereunder.  Upon the termination of the Swingline Commitments of a Swingline Lender, the Company shall pay to the terminated Swingline Lender all principal and accrued interest on outstanding Swingline Loans owing to such terminated Swingline Lender.  The acceptance of any appointment as a Swingline Lender hereunder in accordance with this Agreement or the increase of the Swingline Commitment of any existing Swingline Lender, shall be evidenced by an agreement entered into by such Swingline Lender in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, such Swingline Lender and the Administrative Agent and, from and after the effective date of such agreement, such new or successor lender of Swingline Loans shall become a Swingline Lender hereunder or such increased Swingline Commitment shall become effective.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the effectiveness of any addition of a Swingline Lender, or any increased Swingline Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.13.
New or Successor Swingline Lender; Swingline Commitments
 
2.14         .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Revolving Commitment Period in respect of any Class of Domestic Revolving Commitments the Company may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans of the applicable Class in Dollars; that, after giving effect to such borrowing and the use of proceeds thereof, (i) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt shall not exceed the Borrowing Base at such time, (ii) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect and (iii) on and after December 3, 2009, (A) the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments then in effect and (B) the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments at such time.  To request Competitive Bids, the Company shall give the Administrative Agent written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) by delivery of a Competitive Bid Request not later than 12:00 Noon New York City time (A) four Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, or (B) one Business Day prior to the requested Borrowing Date, in the case of Fixed Rate Loans.  Each such Competitive Bid Request shall specify (1) the amount (which shall be a minimum of $50,000,000) and Type and Class of the requested Competitive Loans, (2) the requested Borrowing Date and (3) the requested Interest Period applicable thereto; that the Company may request offers to make Competitive Loans for more than one Interest Period or for multiple Types and Classes of Competitive Loans in a single Competitive Bid Request.
Competitive Bid Procedure
provided
provided
 
53
(b)           Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request conforming to the requirements of this Section (but, in any event, no later than 3:00 p.m. New York City time, on the date of receipt thereof), the Administrative Agent shall notify the Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class of the details thereof, inviting the Revolving Lenders of such Class to submit Competitive Bids.
 
(c)           Each Revolving Lender of the applicable Class (or any Applicable Lending Office of such Lender) may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to the Company in response to a Competitive Bid Request.  Each Competitive Bid by a Revolving Lender must be in the form of Exhibit J and must be received by the Administrative Agent at its office specified in Section 10.2 not later than 9:30 A.M., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, or 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Fixed Rate Loans.  Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to Exhibit J may be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable if such bid is rejected.  Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Loans requested by the Company) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof.  A Competitive Bid may set forth up to five separate offers by a quoting Lender with respect to each Interest Period specified in a Competitive Bid Request.   A Competitive Bid submitted pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall be irrevocable.
 
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly (and, in any event, by no later than 10:00 A.M., New York City time (i) three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, and (ii) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Fixed Rate Loans) notify the Company of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid and, as soon as practical thereafter, shall provide the Company with a copy of all Competitive Bids (including rejected bids).
 
(e)           Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, the Company may accept or reject any Competitive Bid.  The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, promptly confirmed in writing by delivery of a Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter to the Administrative Agent, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid not later than 10:30 A.M., New York City time (x) three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, and (y) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Fixed Rate Loans; that (i) the failure of the Company to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) the Company shall not accept a Competitive Bid of a particular Type made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Company rejects a Competitive Bid for Loans of such Type made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate,  (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by the Company shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Loans specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, the Company may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made (as nearly as possible) in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid with such amounts rounded (as nearly as possible) to integral multiples of $1,000,0000, in a manner determined by the Company, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan made by a Lender unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000.  A notice given by the Company pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
provided
pro
rata
 
54
(f)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly (and, in any event, by 11:00 A.M., New York City time (i) three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Competitive Loans, and (ii) on the proposed Borrowing Date, in the case of Fixed Rate Loans) notify each bidding Lender whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
 
(g)           If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the Company at least one half of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
(h)           The Company shall repay each outstanding Competitive Loan on the last day of the Interest Period therefor.
 
2.15           (a)  The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender of any Class a facility fee for the period from and including the Closing Date (or such later date as such Lender shall become a Lender hereunder) to the day on which all Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Class of such Lender have been paid in full and the Revolving Commitments of such Lender have been terminated, computed at the Facility Fee Rate for such Class on the average daily amount of the Revolving Commitments of such Class of such Lender (whether used or unused) or, if such Revolving Commitments of such Class have been terminated, on the daily average Revolving Extensions of Credit of such Class of such Lender during the related Fee Payment Period for which payment is made, payable in arrears on each Fee Payment Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof.
Facility Fees, etc.
 
(b)           The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent the fees in the amounts and on the dates as set forth in any fee agreements with the Administrative Agent.
 
2.16         .  (a)  The Company shall have the right, upon not less than three Business Days notice to the Administrative Agent, to terminate the Revolving Commitments under any Revolving Facility or, from time to time, to reduce the amount of the Revolving Commitments under any Revolving Facility; that no such termination or reduction of Revolving Commitments shall be permitted if, after giving effect thereto and to any prepayments of the Revolving Loans and Swingline Loans made on the effective date thereof, the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total Revolving Commitments, the Total 2011 Revolving Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total 2011 Revolving Commitments, the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments, or the Revolving Extensions of Credit under any Revolving Facility would exceed the Revolving Commitments under such Revolving Facility.  Any such reduction shall be in an amount equal to $250,000,000, or a whole multiple of $25,000,000 in excess thereof, and shall reduce permanently such Revolving Commitments under such Facility then in effect.  Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section 2.16 shall be irrevocable; , that a notice to terminate any Revolving Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities or a Change of Control, in which case, such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the revocation of a termination notice shall not affect the Companys obligation to indemnify any Lender in accordance with Section 2.27 for any loss or expense sustained or incurred as a consequence thereof.
Termination, Reduction or Reallocation of Revolving Commitments
provided
provided
 
55
(b)           The Company shall have the right, upon not less than three Business Days notice to the Administrative Agent, to require Revolving Lenders under either Canadian Revolving Facility and/or either Multicurrency Revolving Facility to reallocate their Revolving Commitments thereunder to the Domestic Revolving Facility of the corresponding Class; that, after giving effect to any such reallocation, the aggregate Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit under the Canadian Revolving Commitments of any Class shall not exceed the aggregate Canadian Revolving Commitments of such Class and the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit under the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of any Class shall not exceed the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of such Class.  Any such reallocation shall be in an amount equal to $25,000,000, or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.  Any such reallocation shall reduce the Revolving Commitment of Lenders under the applicable Canadian Revolving Facility or the applicable Multicurrency Revolving Facility, as applicable, in accordance with their existing Revolving Commitment under such Facility at such time and increase each such Revolving Lenders Domestic Revolving Commitment of the corresponding Class by such amount; that if such reallocation would result in amounts being payable by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower to any Lender under Section 2.25 or Section 2.26, such Lender shall change its Applicable Lending Office to avoid such result.  On the date of any such reallocation, (i) each relevant Revolving Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine are necessary in order to cause, after giving effect to such increased Domestic Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class and the application of such amounts to prepay Domestic Revolving Loans of such Class of other relevant Domestic Revolving Lenders of such Class, the Domestic Revolving Loans of such Class to be held ratably by all Domestic Revolving Lenders of such Class in accordance with their respective Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class after giving effect to such increase, (ii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have prepaid and reborrowed all outstanding Domestic Revolving Loans of such Class and (iii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the relevant Domestic Revolving Lenders of such Class the amounts, if any, payable under Section 2.27 as a result of such prepayment.
provided
pro
rata
provided
 
(c)           The Company may at any time or from time to time after the Closing Date, by notice to the Administrative Agent and the relevant Revolving Lenders, request that one or more of the Revolving Lenders under either Domestic Revolving Facility reallocate a portion of their respective Domestic Revolving Commitments under such Domestic Revolving Facility to the Canadian Revolving Facility of the corresponding Class or the Multicurrency Revolving Facility of the corresponding Class, as the case may be; that, after giving effect to any such reallocation and any prepayment of the Domestic Revolving Loans of the applicable Class (which may include a non prepayment of the Domestic Revolving Lenders of the applicable Class agreeing to such reallocation), the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under the Domestic Revolving Commitments of the applicable Class shall not exceed the Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class.  Each notice from the Company pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall set forth the requested amount and Class of such reallocation and date of such reallocation (which shall be at least three Business Days after the date of such request) and shall also set forth the agreement of the relevant Domestic Revolving Lenders to such reallocation.  Domestic Revolving Lenders of any Class agreeing to reallocate a portion of their Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Class to such other Revolving Facility of such Class shall have such portion of their Domestic Revolving Commitment of such Class reallocated as provided in such notice.  On the date of any such reallocation, (i) each relevant Revolving Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine is necessary in order to cause, after giving effect to such reallocation and the application of such amounts to prepay Revolving Loans under the relevant Revolving Facility or Facilities, the Revolving Loans under each Revolving Facility to be held ratably by all Revolving Lenders under such Facility in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments under such Revolving Facility after giving effect to such reallocation, (ii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have prepaid and reborrowed all outstanding Revolving Loans under the relevant Facility or Facilities and (iii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the relevant Revolving Lenders the amounts, if any, payable under Section 2.27 as a result of such prepayment(s).  Notwithstanding anything in this clause (c) to the contrary, no Domestic Revolving Lender shall be obligated to transfer any portion of its Domestic Revolving Commitments to a Canadian Revolving Facility or a Multicurrency Revolving Facility unless such Revolving Lender agrees.
provided
pro
rata
 
56
2.17         .  The Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower may at any time and from time to time prepay the Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (except as provided in Section 2.24(b)), upon irrevocable notice delivered to the Administrative Agent no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, three Business Days prior thereto, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, and no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the day of such prepayment, in the case of ABR Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans, which notice shall specify the applicable Facility and the date and amount of prepayment and whether the prepayment is of Eurocurrency Loans, ABR Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans; , that (a) if a Eurocurrency Loan is prepaid on any day other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall also pay any amounts owing pursuant to Section 2.27 and (b) no Competitive Loan may be prepaid without the consent of the Lender thereof except for any prepayment in connection with a Change of Control or in order to cure an Event of Default; , , that such notice to prepay the Loans delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities or a Change of Control, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by further notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the revocation of a prepayment notice shall not affect the Companys obligation to indemnify any Lender in accordance with Section 2.27 for any loss or expense sustained or incurred as a consequence thereof.  Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Lender thereof.  If any such notice is given, the amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein, together with (except in the case of Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans that are ABR Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans) accrued interest to such date on the amount prepaid.  Partial prepayments of Term Loans and Revolving Loans shall be in an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units of the Currency of such Loan and no less than the Dollar Equivalent of $25,000,000.  Partial prepayments of Swingline Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof.
Optional Prepayments
provided
provided
further
 
2.18         .  (a)  If any event requiring a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 7 shall occur, the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any such Mandatory Prepayment no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, one Business Day prior thereto.  To the extent that the holders of the Permitted Additional Notes do not accept any repurchase offer in connection with a Mandatory Prepayment, the Company shall be permitted, at its option, to (i) retain the amounts subject to such rejected offer or (ii) apply such amounts to optionally prepay outstanding Term Loans of any Class pursuant to Section 2.17.  If more than one Eurocurrency Tranche is outstanding, such prepayment shall be applied to such tranches in the order specified by the Company or, if not specified, to the tranches starting with the shortest remaining Interest Periods.
Mandatory Prepayments
 
57
(b)           Amounts to be applied in connection with prepayments of the outstanding Term Loans pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall be applied, , to ABR Loans and, , to Eurocurrency Loans and, in each case, in accordance with Section 2.24(b).  Each prepayment of the Term Loans under this Section 2.18 shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the amount prepaid and without premium or penalty (except as provided in Section 2.24(b) with respect to Mandatory Prepayments required pursuant to Section 7.4(f)).  If no Term Loans are outstanding (other than Tranche B-2 Term Loans), such remaining amounts shall be retained by the Company and its Subsidiaries.
first
second
 
(c)           On each Fee Payment Date, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Multicurrency Revolving Facility as of the last day of the related Fee Payment Period.  If, as of the last day of any Fee Payment Period, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit under either Multicurrency Revolving Facility exceeds the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Commitments under such Multicurrency Revolving Facility then in effect by 5% or more, then the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and, within five Business Days of such notice, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall prepay Multicurrency Revolving Loans under such Multicurrency Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess; that the failure of the Administrative Agent to determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Multicurrency Revolving Facility as provided in this Section 2.18(c) shall not subject the Administrative Agent to any liability hereunder.
provided
 
(d)           On each Fee Payment Date, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Domestic Revolving Facility (based on the Dollar Equivalent of the Outstanding Amount of any Letter of Credit denominated in a Currency other than Dollars as of the last day of the related Fee Payment Period).  If, as of the last day of any Fee Payment Period, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under either Domestic Revolving Facility exceeds the aggregate Domestic Revolving Commitments under such Domestic Revolving Facility then in effect by 5% or more, then the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and, within five Business Days of such notice, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall prepay Domestic Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans under such Domestic Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to, or Collateralize outstanding Letters of Credit in an amount such that the Domestic Revolving Credit Exposures under the applicable Domestic Revolving Facility attributable to Letters of Credit is Collateralized in an amount equal to, such excess; that the failure of the Administrative Agent to determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Domestic Revolving Facility as provided in this Section 2.18(d) shall not subject the Administrative Agent to any liability hereunder.
provided
 
(e)           On each Fee Payment Date, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Canadian Revolving Facility as of the last day of the related Fee Payment Period.  If, as of the last day of any Fee Payment Period, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit under either Canadian Revolving Facility exceeds the aggregate Canadian Revolving Commitments under such Canadian Revolving Facility then in effect by 5% or more, then the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and, within five Business Days of such notice, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall prepay Canadian Revolving Loans under such Canadian Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess; that the failure of the Administrative Agent to determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit under each Canadian Revolving Facility as provided in this Section 2.18(e) shall not subject the Administrative Agent to any liability hereunder.
provided
 
58
2.19         .  (a)  The Company or any Subsidiary Borrower may elect from time to time to convert Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars to ABR Loans by giving the Administrative Agent prior irrevocable notice of such election no later than 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding the proposed conversion date, that any such conversion of Eurocurrency Loans that is not made on the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto shall be subject to Section 2.27.  The Company or any Subsidiary Borrower may elect from time to time to convert ABR Loans to Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars by giving the Administrative Agent prior irrevocable notice of such election no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding the proposed conversion date (which notice shall specify the length of the initial Interest Period therefor); that no ABR Loan under a particular Facility may be converted into a Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Dollars when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent or the Majority Facility Lenders in respect of such Facility have determined in its or their sole discretion not to permit such conversions.  Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Lender, the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower thereof.
Conversion and Continuation Options
provided
provided
 
(b)           Any Eurocurrency Loan may be continued as such upon the expiration of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower giving irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the term Interest Period set forth in Section 1.1, of the length of the next Interest Period(s) to be applicable to such Loans; that no Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Dollars under a particular Facility may be continued as such when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent has or the Majority Facility Lenders in respect of such Facility have determined in its or their sole discretion not to permit such continuations (and the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company within a reasonable amount of time of any such determination); and , , that if the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower shall fail to give any required notice as described above in this paragraph such Loan shall be automatically continued as a Eurocurrency Loan or an ABR Loan, as applicable, on the last day of such then expiring Interest Period and, in the case of any Eurocurrency Loan, shall have an Interest Period of the same duration as such expiring Interest Period.  Upon receipt of any such notice (or any such automatic continuation), the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Lender, the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower thereof.
provided
provided
further
 
2.20         .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, all borrowings, conversions and continuations of Eurocurrency Loans and all selections of Interest Periods shall be in such amounts and be made pursuant to such elections so that no more than (a) 20 Eurocurrency Tranches shall be outstanding at any one time with respect to the Term Facilities (and any Incremental Term Loan Facility) and (b) 30 Eurocurrency Tranches shall be outstanding at any one time with respect to the Revolving Facilities.
Limitations on Eurocurrency Tranches
 
2.21         .  (a)  Each Eurocurrency Loan shall bear interest for each day during each Interest Period with respect thereto at a rate per annum equal to, in the case of Revolving Loans or Term Loans, the Eurocurrency Rate determined for such Interest Period the Applicable Margin.
Interest Rates and Payment Dates
plus
 
59
(b)           Each Eurocurrency Competitive Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Base Rate applicable to such Loan (or minus, as applicable) the Margin.
plus
 
(c)           Each ABR Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR the Applicable Margin.
plus
 
(d)           Each Canadian Base Rate Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Base Rate the Applicable Margin.
plus
 
(e)           Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan.
 
(f)            Each Money Market Rate Loan shall bear interest during the Interest Period applicable thereto at a rate per annum equal to the Money Market Rate applicable to such Loan.
 
(g)           (i) If all or a portion of the principal amount of any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation shall not be paid when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), such overdue amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (x) in the case of the Loans, the rate that would otherwise be applicable thereto pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2% per annum or (y) in the case of Reimbursement Obligations, the rate applicable to ABR Loans under the applicable Domestic Revolving Facility 2% per annum, and (ii) if all or a portion of any interest payable on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation or any facility fee, Letter of Credit Fee, Acceptance Fee or prepayment premium payable hereunder in respect of any Facility shall not be paid when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), such overdue amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the rate then applicable to ABR Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans, as applicable under the relevant Facility unless such overdue amount is denominated in an Optional Currency, in which case such overdue amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the highest rate then applicable under this Agreement to Multicurrency Revolving Loans of the applicable Class denominated in such Optional Currency 2% per annum (or, in the case of any such other amounts that do not relate to a particular Facility, the rate then applicable to ABR Loans under (x) for any Lender that is a Revolving Lender, the applicable Class of Domestic Revolving Facility, (y) for any Term Lender, the applicable Class of Term Loan Facility and (z) for the Administrative Agent, the 2013 Domestic Revolving Facility, in each case 2% per annum), in each case, with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) above, from the date of such non-payment until such amount is paid in full (as well after as before judgment).
plus
plus
plus
plus
 
(h)           Interest shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, that interest accruing pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section shall be payable from time to time on demand.
provided
 
2.22         .  (a)  Interest and fees payable pursuant hereto shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year for the actual days elapsed, except that (i) with respect to ABR Loans the rate of interest on which is calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate or the US Base Rate (Canada) or Canadian Base Rate Loans or Acceptance Equivalent Loans, the interest thereon and all Acceptance Fees shall be calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be, except in the case of Acceptances or rates calculated based on the CDOR Rate) day year for the actual days elapsed, (ii) interest and fees payable with respect to Multicurrency Revolving Loans denominated in Pounds Sterling shall be calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed and (iii) interest and fees payable with respect to Multicurrency Loans denominated in any other Optional Currency shall be calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed to the extent consistent with market practice.  For purposes of disclosure pursuant to the Interest Act (Canada), the annual rates of interest or fees to which the rates of interest or fees provided in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (and stated herein or therein, as applicable, to be computed on the basis of a 360 day year in respect of Loans denominated in Dollars and a 365 day year in respect of Loans denominated in Canadian Dollars or any other period of time less than a calendar year) are equivalent to the rates so determined multiplied by the actual number of days in the applicable calendar year and divided by 360 or 365, as applicable, or such other period of time, respectively.  The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower and the relevant Lenders of each determination of a Eurocurrency Rate.  Any change in the interest rate on a Loan resulting from a change in the ABR, Canadian Base Rate or the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall become effective as of the opening of business on the day on which such change becomes effective.  The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower and the relevant Lenders of the effective date and the amount of each such change in interest rate.
Computation of Interest and Fees
 
60
(b)           Each determination of an interest rate by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, any Subsidiary Borrower and the Lenders in the absence of manifest error.  The Administrative Agent shall, at the request of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, deliver to the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower a statement showing the quotations used by the Administrative Agent in determining any interest rate pursuant to Section 2.22(a).
 
2.23         .  (a)  If prior to the first day of any Interest Period:
Inability to Determine Interest Rate; Illegality
 
(i)          the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower) that, by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period, or
 
(ii)         the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Majority Facility Lenders in respect of the relevant Facility that the Eurocurrency Rate determined or to be determined for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (as conclusively certified by such Lenders) of making or maintaining their affected Loans during such Interest Period, or
 
(iii)        the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower) that deposits in the applicable Currency are not generally available in the applicable market (any Optional Currency affected by the circumstances described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) is referred to as an );
Affected Foreign Currency
 
the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower and the relevant Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter.  If such notice is given (A) pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 2.23(a) in respect of Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars, then (1) any Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars under the relevant Facility requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall be made as ABR Loans, (2) any ABR Loans that were to have been converted on the first day of such Interest Period to Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars under the relevant Facility shall be continued as ABR Loans and (iii) any outstanding Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars under the relevant Facility shall be converted, on the last day of the then-current Interest Period, to ABR Loans and (B) in respect of any Multicurrency Revolving Loans denominated in an Optional Currency, then (1) any Multicurrency Revolving Loans in an Affected Foreign Currency requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall not be made and (2) any outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans in an Affected Foreign Currency shall be converted into Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars.  Until such relevant notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars under the relevant Facility or Multicurrency Revolving Loans in an Affected Foreign Currency shall be made or continued as such, nor shall the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower have the right to convert ABR Loans under the relevant Facility to Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars.
 
61
(b)           If prior to a borrowing by way of the issuance of Acceptances, the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and the relevant Canadian Borrower) that, by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant money market, there is no market for Acceptances, then:
 
(i)          the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Company and each Canadian Borrower and the relevant Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter, and
 
(ii)         the right of a Canadian Borrower to request an issuance of Acceptances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent determines that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and the Administrative Agent so notifies the Canadian Borrowers and the affected Lenders,
 
(iii)        any Acceptances requested to be issued at such time shall not be issued and any notice relating to such Acceptances shall be deemed to be a notice requesting a borrowing by way of Canadian Base Rate Loans (as if such notice were given pursuant to Section 2.9).  Until such relevant notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Acceptances will be issued, nor shall the Company or any Canadian Borrower have the right to convert Canadian Base Rate Loans to Acceptances.
 
(c)           If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain Eurocurrency Loans or to accept and purchase Acceptances as contemplated by this Agreement, such Lender shall give notice thereof to the Administrative Agent, the Company and any affected Subsidiary Borrower describing the relevant provisions of such Requirement of Law (and, if the Company shall so request, provide the Company with a memorandum or opinion of counsel of recognized standing (as selected by such Lender) as to such illegality), following which, (i) in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, (A) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurocurrency Loans, continue such Eurocurrency Loans as such and convert ABR Loans to Eurocurrency Loans shall forthwith be cancelled, (B) such Lenders outstanding Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars shall be converted automatically on the last day of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans (or within such earlier period as shall be required by law) to ABR Loans and (C) such Lenders outstanding Eurocurrency Loans denominated in any Optional Currency shall be paid in full on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans (or within such earlier period as shall be required by law) and (ii) in respect of Acceptances, (A) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to issue or accept Acceptances shall forthwith be cancelled and (B) the full face amount of such Lenders outstanding Acceptances shall be repaid in full on the then current maturity dates with respect to such Acceptances (or within such earlier period as shall be required by law) or, if not so repaid, then the full face amount thereof shall be converted to Canadian Base Rate Loans.
 
62
If any such conversion or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Loan occurs on a day which is not the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower whose Loan is converted or prepaid shall pay to such Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to Section 2.27.
 
(d)           If any provision of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents would obligate any Canadian Borrower to make any payment of interest with respect to any of the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit or other amount payable to the Administrative Agent or any Canadian Revolving Lender in an amount or calculated at a rate which would be prohibited by any Requirement of Law or would result in a receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Canadian Revolving Lender of interest with respect to the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit at a criminal rate (as such terms are construed under any applicable law, including the (Canada)) then, notwithstanding such provision, such amount or rates shall be deemed to have been adjusted with retroactive effect to the maximum amount or rate of interest, as the case may be, as would not be so prohibited by any applicable law or so result in a receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Canadian Revolving Lender of interest with respect to the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit at a criminal rate, such adjustment to be effected, to the extent necessary, as follows:
Criminal Code
 
(i)          , by reducing the amount or rates of interest required to be paid to the Administrative Agent or the affected Canadian Revolving Lender under Section 2.21; and
first
 
(ii)         , by reducing any fees, commissions, premiums and other amounts required to be paid to the Administrative Agent or the affected Canadian Revolving Lender which would constitute interest with respect to the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit for purposes of any applicable law, including Section 347 of the (Canada).
thereafter
Criminal Code
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and after giving effect to all adjustments contemplated thereby, if the Administrative Agent or any Canadian Revolving Lender shall have received an amount in excess of the maximum permitted by any applicable law, including section 347 of the (Canada) and the (Canada), then the applicable Canadian Borrower shall be entitled, by notice in writing to the Administrative Agent or the affected Canadian Revolving Lender, to obtain reimbursement from the Administrative Agent or such Canadian Revolving Lender in an amount equal to such excess, and pending such reimbursement, such amount shall be deemed to be an amount payable by the Administrative Agent or such Canadian Revolving Lender to such Canadian Borrower.  Any amount or rate of interest referred to in this Section 2.23(d) shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices and principles as an effective annual rate of interest over the term that any Canadian Revolving Commitment remains outstanding on the assumption that any charges, fees or expenses that fall within the meaning of interest (as defined in or construed by any applicable law, including the (Canada)) shall, if they relate to a specific period of time, be pro-rated over that period of time and otherwise be pro-rated over the period from the Closing Date to the applicable Revolving Termination Date and for the purpose of the (Canada), in the event of a dispute, a certificate of a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries appointed by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive for the purposes of such determination.
Criminal Code
Interest Act
Criminal Code
Criminal Code
 
2.24          .  (a)  Each borrowing of Term Loans or Revolving Loans under any Facility by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower from the Lenders under such Facility hereunder and any reduction of the Commitments of the Lenders under any Facility  shall be made according to the respective Term Percentages or Revolving Percentages, as the case may be, of the relevant Lenders in such Facility except to the extent required or permitted pursuant to Sections 2.1(b), 2.2, 2.14, 2.16(b), 2.16(c), 2.29. 2.30 and 2.33.
Pro Rata Treatment and Payments; Evidence of Debt
pro
rata
 
63
(b)           Each payment (including each prepayment) by the Company on account of principal of and interest on any Class of Term Loans shall be made according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of such Term Loans then held by the applicable Term Lenders except to the extent required or permitted pursuant to Section 2.29.  The amount of each principal prepayment of such Term Loans shall be applied to reduce the then remaining installments of such Term Loans as directed by the Company.  Amounts paid on account of the Term Loans may not be reborrowed.  In the event that the Tranche B-1 Term Loans are paid in whole or in part by the Company pursuant to Section 2.17, 2.29, 7.4(f) or 10.1(c) or after acceleration thereof following an Event of Default, the Company shall pay to the relevant Tranche B-1 Term Lenders a prepayment premium on the principal amount so repaid as follows:  (a) the Applicable Premium if such repayment occurs on or prior to the second anniversary of the Closing Date and (b) 1.00% if such repayment occurs after the second anniversary of the Closing Date but on or prior to the third anniversary of the Closing Date.
pro
rata
 
(c)           Each payment (including each prepayment) by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower on account of principal of and interest on the Revolving Loans under any Revolving Facility shall be made according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Revolving Loans under such Revolving Facility then held by the Revolving Lenders under such Revolving Facility except to the extent required or permitted pursuant to Sections 2.2, 2.16(b), 2.16(c), 2.29, 2.30 and 2.33.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 8, each such payment shall be paid in the relevant currency in which such Revolving Loan was made.
pro
rata
 
(d)           All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder, whether on account of principal, interest, fees or otherwise, shall be made without setoff or counterclaim and shall be made prior to 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the due date thereof to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Lenders, at the Funding Office, in the applicable Currency and in immediately available funds, except that payment of fronting fees owing to any Issuing Lender shall be made directly to the relevant Issuing Lender.  The Administrative Agent shall distribute such payments to the applicable Lenders promptly upon receipt in like funds as received.  If any payment hereunder (other than payments on the Eurocurrency Loans and the Eurocurrency Competitive Loans) becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day.  If any payment on a Eurocurrency Loan or a Eurocurrency Competitive Loan becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to extend such payment into another calendar month, in which event such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.  In the case of any extension of any payment of principal pursuant to the preceding two sentences, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during such extension.
 
(e)           Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Lender prior to a borrowing that such Lender will not make the amount that would constitute its share of such borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender is making such amount available to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower a corresponding amount.  If such amount is not made available to the Administrative Agent by the required time on the Borrowing Date therefor, such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon, (A) in the case of amounts denominated in Dollars, at a rate up to the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate and (ii) a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (B) in the case of amount denominated in any other Currency, at a rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount, in each case for the period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  A certificate of the Administrative Agent submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this paragraph shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.  If such Lenders share of such borrowing is not made available to the Administrative Agent by such Lender within three Business Days after such Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover such amount with interest thereon (A) in the case of amounts denominated in Dollars, at the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans under the relevant Facility, (B) in the case of amounts denominated in Canadian Dollars, at the rate per annum applicable to Canadian Base Rate Loans under the relevant Facility or (C) in the case of amounts denominated in any other Currency, at a rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount, on demand, from the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower.
 
64
(f)            Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified in writing by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower prior to the date of any payment due to be made by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower hereunder that the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower will not make such payment to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower is making such payment, and the Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Lenders their respective shares of a corresponding amount.  If such payment is not made to the Administrative Agent by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower within three Business Days after such due date, the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to recover, on demand, from each Lender to which any amount which was made available pursuant to the preceding sentence, (A) in the case of amounts denominated in Dollars, such amount with interest thereon at the rate per annum equal to the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate and (B) in the case of amounts denominated in other Currencies, such amount with interest thereon at a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender against the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower.
pro
rata
 
(g)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.24, proceeds of the Collateral that are applied to pay the Loans while a Notice of Acceleration is in effect shall be applied pursuant to Section 3.4 of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
 
(h)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.24, following a Collateral Release Date and while a Notice of Acceleration is in effect, all payments and distributions by the Administrative Agent on account of Obligations shall be applied (except as otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent and the Majority Facility Lenders under each Facility adversely effected thereby and, in the case of clause (vi), the Company) in the following order:
 
(i)          , to pay Obligations in respect of any fees, expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Administrative Agent;
first
 
(ii)         , to pay Obligations in respect of any fees, expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Lenders and Issuing Lenders;
second
 
(iii)        , to pay interest then due and payable in respect of all Obligations;
third
 
65
(iv)        , to pay or prepay principal payments (and, when applicable, to provide cash collateral) for all Obligations;
fourth
 
(v)         , to pay all other Obligations; and
fifth
 
(vi)        , as directed by the Company.
sixth
 
, , that if sufficient funds are not available to fund all payments to be made in respect of any of the Obligations set forth in any of clauses (i) through (v) above, the available funds being applied with respect to any such Obligation (unless otherwise specified in such clause) shall be allocated to the payment of such Obligations ratably, based on the proportion of the Administrative Agents, each Lenders and each Issuing Lenders interest in the aggregate outstanding Obligations described in such clauses.
provided
however
 
(i)            Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Borrowers agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Lender, the Company or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower will promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note of the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower evidencing any Term Loans or Revolving Loans, as the case may be, of such Lender, substantially in the forms of Exhibit U-1 or U-2, respectively (a  or , respectively), with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount.
Term Note
Revolving Note
 
2.25         .  Except with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed exclusively by Section 2.26 of this Agreement and except with respect to Competitive Loans to which this Section 2.25 shall be inapplicable:
Requirements of Law
 
(a)           If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof:
 
(i)          shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Lender that is not otherwise included in the determination of the Eurocurrency Rate; or
 
(ii)         shall impose on such Lender any other condition;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender, by an amount that such Lender deems material, of making, converting into, continuing or maintaining Eurocurrency Loans or issuing or participating in Letters of Credit, or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay such Lender, within 15 Business Days of receipt of notice from the relevant Lender as described below, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable.  If any Lender becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this paragraph, it shall promptly notify the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of the event by reason of which it has become so entitled (including a reasonably detailed calculation of such amounts).
 
(b)           If any Lender shall have determined that the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders or such corporations capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder or under or in respect of any Letter of Credit to a level below that which such Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lenders or such corporations policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time, within 15 Business Days after submission by such Lender to the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of a written request therefor (together with a reasonably detailed description and calculation of such amounts), the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such corporation for such reduction.
 
66
(c)           A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section submitted by any Lender to the Company and the relevant Subsidiary Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any amounts incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the circumstances giving rise to such claim have a retroactive effect, then such six-month period shall be extended to include the period of such retroactive effect.  The obligations of the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
provided
 
2.26         .  (a)  All payments made by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement (other than in respect of any Competitive Loans as to which this Section 2.26(a) shall not apply) shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, excluding (a) net income taxes and franchise taxes (imposed in lieu of net income taxes) imposed on the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of a present or former connection between the Administrative Agent or such Lender and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from the Administrative Agent or such Lender having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any other Loan Document) and (b) any branch profit taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other Governmental Authority.  If any such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings () or Other Taxes are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder, (i) the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower (as applicable) shall make such deductions and shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws and (ii) the amounts so payable to the Administrative Agent or such Lender hereunder shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Administrative Agent or such Lender (after payment of all Non-Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in this Agreement, , , that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary Borrower shall be required to increase any such amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to any Non-Excluded Taxes except to the extent that any change in applicable law, treaty or governmental rule, regulation or governmental authorization after the time such Lender (including any new or successor Swingline Lender, Issuing Lender or Administrative Agent) becomes a party to this Agreement (), shall result in an increase in the rate of any deduction, withholding or payment from that in effect at the time such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement, in respect of payments to such Lender hereunder, but only to the extent of such increase.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary Borrower shall be required to increase any amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to any Non-Excluded Taxes that are attributable to such Persons failure to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this Section 2.26 except as such failure relates to a Change in Tax Law rendering such Person legally unable to comply.
Taxes
Non-Excluded Taxes
provided
however
Change in Tax Law
 
67
(b)           In addition, the Company or any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes over to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
 
(c)           Whenever any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes are payable by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, as promptly as possible thereafter the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower shall send to the Administrative Agent for its own account or for the account of the relevant Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower showing payment thereof.  If the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower fails to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Administrative Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and the Lenders for any incremental taxes, interest, additions to tax, expenses or penalties that may become payable by the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of any such failure; , , no such indemnification obligation shall arise if the failure to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes when due arose solely from or was caused solely by, directly or indirectly, any breach of any representation or covenant in this Agreement by the applicable Lender or the Administrative Agent.  The indemnification payment under this Section 2.26(c) shall be made within 30 days after the date the Administrative Agent or such Lender (as the case may be) makes a written demand therefor (together with a reasonably detailed calculation of such amounts).
provided
however
 
(d)           Each Lender (or Transferee) (i) that is not a U.S. Person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a ) shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent two copies of either U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of portfolio interest, a statement substantially in the form of Exhibit Q and a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (ii) that is a U.S. Person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent (or in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased) two properly completed and duly executed copies of U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-9.  Such forms shall be delivered by each Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation).  Thereafter, each Lender shall, to the extent it is legally able to do so, deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Lender at any other time prescribed by applicable law or as reasonably requested by the Company.  If any Commitment is reallocated in accordance with Section 2.16(b), then the relevant Revolving Lender (to whom such Commitment has been reallocated) shall deliver, on the effective date of such reallocation, all such forms that it is legally able to deliver.  In the event of a Change in Tax Law, each Lender shall deliver all such forms that it is legally able to deliver, including any form claiming a reduced rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on payments by the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and any other Loan Document.  Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify the Company at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to the Company (and any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose).
Non-U.S. Lender
 
68
(e)           With respect to each Subsidiary Borrower, a Lender or Transferee shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prior to the first date any payment is due to be paid from or by such Subsidiary Borrower to it hereunder, any form or certificate required in order that any payment by such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents to such Lender may be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any Non-Excluded Taxes imposed on such payment under the laws of the jurisdiction under which such Subsidiary Borrower is incorporated or organized.  If any Commitment is reallocated in accordance with Section 2.16(c), then the relevant Revolving Lender (to whom such Commitment has been reallocated) shall deliver on the effective date of such reallocation, all such forms that it is legally able to deliver, including any form claiming a reduced rate of non-U.S. withholding tax on payments made by the relevant Subsidiary Borrower to such Revolving Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  In the event of a Change in Tax Law after the date such Subsidiary Borrower makes the first payment, a Lender or Transferee shall deliver all such required forms that it is legally able to deliver, including any form claiming a reduced rate of non-U.S. withholding tax on payments by such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
(f)            [Reserved.]
 
(g)           If the Administrative Agent, any Transferee or any Lender determines, in its sole good faith discretion, that it has received a refund of any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower or with respect to which the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.26, it shall pay over such refund to the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower under this Section 2.26 with respect to the Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Transferee or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Transferee or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Transferee or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent, such Transferee or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This paragraph shall not be construed to (i) interfere with the right of the Administrative Agent, any Transferee or any Lender to arrange its tax affairs in whatever manner it sees fit, (ii) obligate the Administrative Agent, any Transferee or any Lender to claim any tax refund, (iii) require the Administrative Agent, any Transferee or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes or any computation in respect thereof which it deems in its sole discretion to be confidential) to the Company, any Subsidiary Borrower or any other Person, or (iv) require the Administrative Agent, any Transferee or any Lender to do anything that would in its sole discretion prejudice its ability to benefit from any other refunds, credits, reliefs, remissions or repayments to which it may be entitled.
provided
 
(h)           Each Assignee shall be bound by this Section 2.26.
 
69
(i)            The agreements in this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
2.27         .  The Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender for, and to hold each Lender harmless from, any actual loss or expense that such Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurocurrency Loans after the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (b) default by the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower in making any prepayment of or conversion from Eurocurrency Loans after the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (c) the making of a prepayment of Eurocurrency Loans (or the conversion of a Eurocurrency Loan into a Loan of a different Type) on a day that is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.29.  Such indemnification may include an amount up to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Margin included therein, if any) (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) that would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank eurocurrency market.  A certificate as to any amounts payable pursuant to this Section submitted to the Company and the relevant Subsidiary Borrower by any Lender (together with a reasonably detailed calculation of such amounts) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error and shall be payable within 30 days of receipt of any such notice.  The agreements in this Section 2.27 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans hereunder.
Indemnity
over
 
2.28         .  Each Lender agrees that, upon the occurrence of any event giving rise to the operation of Section 2.25 or 2.26(a) with respect to such Lender, it will, if requested by the Company, use reasonable efforts (subject to overall policy considerations of such Lender) to designate another Applicable Lending Office for any Loans affected by such event with the object of avoiding or minimizing the consequences of such event; , that such designation is made on terms that, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, do not cause such Lender and its lending office(s) to suffer any material economic, legal or regulatory disadvantage; and , , that nothing in this Section shall affect or postpone any of the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower or the rights of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.25 or 2.26(a).
Change of Applicable Lending Office
provided
provided
further
 
2.29         .  (a) The Company shall be permitted to replace with a replacement financial institution or terminate the Commitments and repay any outstanding Loans of any Lender that (i) requests reimbursement for amounts owing pursuant to Section 2.25 or 2.26(a), (ii) fails to give its consent for any amendment or waiver requiring the consent of 100% of the Lenders or all affected Lenders (and such Lender is an affected Lender) or 100% of the Lenders under a particular Facility and for which Lenders holding at least 66 2/3% of the Loans and/or Commitments required for such vote have consented or (iii) fails to give its consent to an extension of any Revolving Termination Date to which the Majority Facility Lenders under the applicable Revolving Facility have consented; that (A) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such replacement, (B) the replacement financial institution or the Company, as applicable, shall purchase or repay, at par plus accrued interest and accrued fees thereon, all Loans owing to such replaced or terminated Lender on or prior to the date of replacement or termination, (C) the Company shall be liable to such replaced or terminated Lender under Section 2.27 if any Eurocurrency Loan owing to such replaced Lender shall be purchased or repaid other than on the last day of the Interest Period relating thereto, (D) any replacement financial institution, if not a Lender, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (E) any replaced Lender shall be obligated to make such replacement in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.6 ( that the Company shall be obligated to pay the registration and processing fee referred to therein), (F) until such time as such replacement shall be consummated, the Company shall pay all additional amounts (if any) required pursuant to Section 2.25 or 2.26(a), as the case may be, (vG) any such replacement, termination and/or repayment shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any rights that the Company, the Administrative Agent or any other Lender shall have against the replaced Lender and (H) if such Lender is being replaced or terminated pursuant to clause (ii) of this Section 2.29(a), the Company shall have paid to such Lender the prepayment premium, if any, that would be applicable at the date of such termination or replacement if such Lender had received a prepayment on such date pursuant to Section 2.17.
Replacement/Termination of Lenders
provided
provided
 
70
(b)           (i) The unfunded amount of the Revolving Commitments of any Revolving Lender that becomes a Defaulting Lender shall be automatically terminated (and the facility fees payable thereon pursuant to Section 2.15(a) shall cease to accrue) on the date that is 30 days after such Revolving Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, unless the Company has waived the termination of all of such Revolving Commitments, or any part of such Revolving Commitments to the extent such Defaulting Lender has sold participations therein pursuant to Section 10.6(c), in each case prior to such date (such date of termination, the ), and (ii) any funded amount of the Revolving Commitments of any Revolving Lender that becomes a Defaulting Lender shall be terminated and repaid on the Termination Date or from time to time as the Company determines to repay the outstanding Revolving Loans of such Defaulting Lender, which it shall be permitted to do on a non-pro rata basis, notwithstanding Section 2.24; that to the extent that any termination under clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 2.29(b) would cause (prior to December 3, 2009) the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of any Domestic Revolving Lender to exceed the Domestic Revolving Commitments of such Domestic Revolving Lender or (from and after December 3, 2009) the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit of any 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender to exceed the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments of such 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender, the Company shall repay Domestic Revolving Loans or 2013 Domestic Revolving Loans, as the case may be, so as to eliminate such excess.  In the case of either clause (i) or (ii), the Company may, at its option, replace, in whole or in part, any such Revolving Lender with one or more replacement financial institutions (which agree to act as such) with aggregate Revolving Commitments not to exceed the Revolving Commitment that was terminated; that (A) if such Revolving Lender is being replaced or terminated pursuant to clause (ii) of this Section 2.29(b), the replacement financial institution or the Company, as applicable, shall purchase or repay, at par plus accrued interest and accrued fees thereon, those Loans owing to such replaced or terminated Lender that the Company elects to purchase or repay (or cause to be purchased or repaid, as applicable) on the date of such replacement or termination, and the Company shall be liable to such replaced or terminated Lender under Section 2.27 if any Eurocurrency Loan owing to such replaced Lender shall be purchased or repaid other than on the last day of the Interest Period relating thereto, (B) any replacement financial institution, if not a Lender, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (C) any replaced Lender shall be obligated to make such replacement in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.6 (provided that the Company shall be obligated to pay the registration and processing fee referred to therein), (D) until such time as such replacement shall be consummated, the Company shall pay all additional amounts (if any) required pursuant to Section 2.25 or 2.26(a), as the case may be, and (E) any such replacement, termination and/or repayment shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any rights that the Company, the Administrative Agent or any other Lender shall have against the replaced Lender.
Termination Date
provided
provided
 
2.30         .  (a)  The Company may at any time or from time to time after the Closing Date, by notice to the Administrative Agent and the Revolving Lenders, request the Revolving Lenders to designate a portion of their respective Revolving Commitments under any Revolving Facility to make Revolving Extensions of Credit denominated in Dollars and any Optional Currency in a jurisdiction outside of the United States pursuant to a newly established sub-facility or sub-facilities under any Revolving Facility or a separate revolving facility (each, a ); that (i) both at the time of any such request and upon the effectiveness of any Local Facility Amendment referred to below, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; that no Lender shall be required to make Revolving Extensions of Credit in excess of its Revolving Commitment, and (ii) after giving effect to any such New Local Facility, the Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Domestic Revolving Commitments, the Canadian Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Canadian Revolving Commitments and the Multicurrency Revolving Extensions of Credit shall not exceed the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments.  Each New Local Facility shall be in a minimum Dollar Equivalent amount of $100,000,000.  Each notice from the Company pursuant to this Section 2.30 shall set forth the requested amount and proposed terms of the relevant New Local Facility and the Revolving Facility or Facilities designated by the Company to be reduced as a result of the establishment of such New Local Facility.  Revolving Lenders wishing to designate a portion of their Revolving Commitments under a designated Facility to a New Local Facility (each, a ) shall have such portion of their Revolving Commitment under such Facility designated to such New Local Facility on a basis in accordance with the aggregate Revolving Commitments of the other New Local Facility Lenders; that no Lender may so reallocate its Revolving Commitments to a New Local Facility if such reallocation would result in amounts being payable by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower under Section 2.25 or Section 2.26 unless such Lender changes its Applicable Lending Office to avoid such a result or the Company otherwise consents.  The designation of Revolving Commitments to any New Local Facility shall be made pursuant to an amendment (each, a ) to this Agreement and, as appropriate, the other Loan Documents, executed by the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and each New Local Facility Lender.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.30 to the contrary, no Revolving Lender shall be obligated to transfer any portion of its Revolving Commitments to a New Local Facility unless it so agrees.
New Local Facilities
New Local Facility
provided
provided
further
New Local Facility Lender
pro
rata
provided
Local Facility Amendment
 
71
(b)           Notwithstanding the terms of Section 10.1(a), any Local Facility Amendment may, without the consent of any other Lenders, effect such amendments to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent and the Company, to implement the provisions of this Section, a copy of which shall be made available to each Lender.
 
2.31         .  (a)  The Company may from time to time notify the Administrative Agent that certain of the Lenders designated by the Company shall become Incremental Lenders and/or that additional lenders shall be added to this Agreement as Incremental Lenders with Commitments for the purpose of establishing an Incremental Term Loan Facility by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent an Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice signed by such Lenders or such additional lenders and specifying (i) the respective Incremental Term Loan Commitment of such Incremental Lenders, (ii) the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date, (iii) the applicable Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date, (iv) the amortization schedule for the applicable Incremental Term Loans, (v) the Currency of the applicable Incremental Term Loans, (vi) the Applicable Margin for the Incremental Term Loans to be made pursuant to such Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice, (vii) the borrower thereof (which shall be the Company or a Subsidiary Borrower) and (viii) any additional terms applicable to such Incremental Term Loans to be made pursuant to such Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice (in each case, as agreed between the Company and the Incremental Lenders providing such Incremental Term Loans), and otherwise duly completed; that (A) after giving effect to the incurrence of such Incremental Term Loans and use of proceeds thereof, no Default or Event of Default shall be continuing and the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio shall be at least 1.00 to 1.00, (B) the Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date applicable to such Incremental Term Loans shall be no earlier than the Term Loan Maturity Date, (C) the weighted average life to maturity of such Incremental Term Loans shall be longer than the weighted average life to maturity of the Term Loans then outstanding and (D) if any terms added to such Incremental Term Loans pursuant to the foregoing clause (viii) (other than in respect respect of interest rates, fees, call features or premiums) are less favorable to the Company and its Subsidiaries than the terms of this Agreement at such time, the Company and the Administrative Agent shall have entered into an amendment of this Agreement to include such additional terms for the benefit of all Lenders hereunder.
Incremental Term Loan Facilities
provided
 
72
(b)           Each Incremental Lender that is a signatory to an Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice severally agrees, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement, to make a term loan (an ) to the Company or the applicable Subsidiary Borrower on the Incremental Term Loan Closing Date specified in such Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice in a principal amount equal to the Incremental Term Loan Commitment of such Incremental Lender specified in such Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice.  Nothing in this Section 2.31 shall be construed to obligate any Lender to execute an Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice.
Incremental Term Loan
 
(c)           The Company shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable written (or telephonic promptly confirmed in writing) notice of the borrowing of any Incremental Term Loans under any Incremental Term Loan Facility (which notice must be received by the Administrative Agent prior to 12:00 Noon, New York time, (i) three Business Days prior to the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, or (ii) one Business Day prior to the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date, in the case of ABR Loans), specifying (A) the amount and Type of Incremental Term Loans to be borrowed, (B) the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date and (C) in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, the respective amounts of each such Type of Loan and the respective lengths of the initial Interest Period therefor.  Each borrowing under any Incremental Term Loan Facility shall be in an amount equal to at least minimum amount specified in the relevant Incremental Term Loan Activiation Notice.  Upon receipt of any such notice with respect to an Incremental Term Loan Facility, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Incremental Lender thereof.  Each relevant Incremental Lender will make its respective Incremental Term Loan available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company at the office of the Administrative Agent specified in Section 10.2 prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the applicable Incremental Term Loan Closing Date in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  Such borrowing will then be made available to the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower by the Administrative Agent as the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower may direct with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the applicable Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.  The provisions of this paragraph shall be subject to any applicable limitations or requirements in the relevant Incremental Term Loan Activation Notice.
 
(d)           Notwithstanding the terms of Section 10.1(a), the Company and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to enter into any amendments to this Agreement that the Administrative Agent believes are necessary to appropriately include, or provide for, the integration of any Incremental Term Loans under this Agreement and matters required by clause (D) of the proviso to Section 2.31(a) (including, if applicable, in connection with the establishment of a Permitted Additional Senior Facility).
 
2.32         .  (a)  The Company may from time to time notify the Administrative Agent that certain of the Lenders designated by the Company and/or that additional lenders shall be added to this Agreement as Incremental Lenders with Commitments for the purpose of either increasing the existing Revolving Commitments under any 2013 Revolving Facility (a ) or establishing an Incremental Revolving Facility by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent an Incremental Revolving Activation Notice signed by such Lenders or such additional lenders and specifying (i) the respective Incremental Revolving Commitments of such Incremental Lenders, (ii) the applicable Incremental Revolving Facility Closing Date or Revolving Commitment Increase Date, and (iii) with respect to any Incremental Revolving Facility (A) the applicable Incremental Revolving Loan Maturity Date, (B) the Currency or Currencies available under such Incremental Revolving Facility, (C) the borrower(s) thereunder (which may be the Company and any Subsidiary Borrowers), (D) the Applicable Margin and other fees applicable to Incremental Revolving Loans and other extensions of credit to be made available under such Incremental Revolving Facility, and (E) any additional terms applicable to such Incremental Revolving Facility, including the borrowing procedures related thereto (in each case, as agreed between the Company and the Incremental Lenders providing such Incremental Revolving Loans), and otherwise duly completed; that (1) after giving effect to such Revolving Commitment Increase or Incremental Revolving Facilty (including the incurrence of any Incremental Revolving Loans on the applicable Revolving Commitment Increase Date or Incremental Revolving Facility Closing Date and use of proceeds thereof), no Default or Event of Default shall be continuing and the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio (assuming the applicable Incremental Revolving Facility is fully drawn) shall be at least 1.00 to 1.00, (2) the Incremental Revolving Loan Maturity Date applicable to such Incremental Revolving Facility shall be no earlier than the Revolving Termination Date for the 2013 Revolving Commitments then in effect, and (3) if any terms added to such Incremental Revolving Facility pursuant to the foregoing clause (E) (other than in respect respect of interest rates, fees, call features or premiums) are less favorable to the Company and its Subsidiaries than the terms of this Agreement at such time, the Company and the Administrative Agent shall have entered into amendments to this Agreement to include such additional terms for the benefit of all Lenders hereunder.
Incremental Revolving Commitments/Facilities
Revolving Commitment Increase
provided
 
73
(b)           Each Incremental Lender that is a signatory to an Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice severally agrees, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement, to make revolving credit loans (each, an ) to the Company and/or the applicable Subsidiary Borrowers from time to time on or after the Incremental Revolving Loan Closing Date or Revolving Commitment Increase Date specified in such Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice in an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time up to but not exceeding the amount of the Incremental Revolving Commitment of such Incremental Lender specified in such Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice, subject to the terms of this Agreement and the applicable Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice.  Nothing in this Section 2.32 shall be construed to obligate any Lender to execute an Incremental Revolving Loan Activation Notice.
Incremental Revolving Loan
 
(c)           On any Revolving Commitment Increase Date, in the event any 2013 Revolving Loans under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility are then outstanding, (i) each relevant Incremental Revolving Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine are necessary in order to cause, after giving effect to such increased Revolving Commitments and the application of such amounts to prepay 2013 Revolving Loans under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility of other relevant Revolving Lenders under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility, the 2013 Revolving Loans under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility to be held ratably by all 2013 Revolving Lenders under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility after giving effect to such increase, (ii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall be deemed to have prepaid and reborrowed all outstanding 2013 Revolving Loans under the relevant 2013 Revolving Facility and (iii) the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the relevant 2013 Revolving Lenders the amounts, if any, payable under Section 2.27 as a result of such prepayment.
 
74
(d)           Notwithstanding the terms of Section 10.1(a), the Company and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to enter into any amendments to this Agreement that the Administrative Agent believes are necessary to appropriately include, or provide for the integration of, any Revolving Commitment Increase or any Incremental Revolving Facility under this Agreement and matters required by clause (3) of the proviso to Section 2.32(a) (including, if applicable, in connection with the establishment of a Permitted Additional Senior Facility).
 
2.33         .  (a)  The Company may at any time and from time to time, by notice to the Administrative Agent, request a one-year or two-year extension of the Revolving Termination Date with respect to the 2011 Revolving Facilities or the 2013 Revolving Facilities, as the case may be, and, at the Companys option, amend the Applicable Margins for the applicable Revolving Facilities in connection with such request; that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date of such request, and , that if, in connection with any such extension of the Revolving Termination Date with respect to the 2011 Revolving Facilities, the Applicable Margin or Facility Fee Rate with respect to the 2011 Revolving Facilities is increased to a rate that is higher than the corresponding rate applicable to the 2013 Revolving Facilities, then the corresponding rate applicable to the 2013 Revolving Facilities shall automatically be increased to the increased rate applicable to the extended 2011 Revolving Facilities at the time at which the increased rate with respect to the extended 2011 Revolving Facilities goes into effect.   Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Revolving Lender under the applicable Revolving Facilities thereof.  Each Revolving Lender under such Revolving Facilities shall respond to such request in writing within 30 calendar days after such request and any failure of a Revolving Lender to respond shall be deemed to be a denial of such request.  If the Majority Facility Lenders with respect to such Revolving Facilities agree to such extension, the Revolving Termination Date with respect to such Revolving Facilities shall be extended to the date specified in the Companys extension request and with the amended Applicable Margin, if any, specified in such extension request subject, with respect to each Non-Extending Lender, to the provisions of Section 2.33(b).
Revolving Termination Date Extension
provided
provided
further
 
(b)           If any Revolving Lender under the 2011 Revolving Facilities or the 2013 Revolving Facilities, as the case may be, does not consent to any extension request pursuant to Section 2.33(a) (a ) but the Majority Facility Lenders with respect to such Revolving Facilities agree to such extension (each such Lender, an ), then (i) the Revolving Termination Date for each Extending Lender in respect of such Revolving Facilities shall be extended to the date specified in the Companys extension request and, if applicable, the Applicable Margins amended with respect to the Extending Lenders only and (ii) the Revolving Commitments of each Non-Extending Lender and the existing Applicable Margins shall, subject to the terms of Section 2.29, continue until the Revolving Termination Date for such Non-Extending Lender in effect prior to such extension.
Non-Extending Lender
Extending Lender
 
(c)           Notwithstanding the terms of Section 10.1(a), the Company and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to enter into any amendments to this Agreement that the Administrative Agent believes are necessary to appropriately reflect, or provide for the integration of, any extension of a Revolving Termination Date or change in Applicable Margins pursuant to this Section 2.33.
 
75
 
3.1           .  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Issuing Lender, in reliance on the agreements of the Applicable Domestic Revolving Lenders set forth in Section 3.4(a), agrees to issue letters of credit and, with the consent of such Issuing Lender, letters of guarantee (each a ) for the account of the Company, any Domestic Subsidiary Borrower or any other Subsidiary on any Business Day during the Revolving Commitment Period in respect of the 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments in such form as may be reasonable and customary for the purpose thereof; that (i) no Issuing Lender shall issue any Letter of Credit if, after giving effect to such issuance, (A) the Outstanding Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender would exceed such Issuing Lenders L/C Commitment then in effect, (B) the aggregate amount of the Applicable Available Domestic Revolving Commitments would be less than zero, (C) the Outstanding Amount of all Letters of Credit would exceed the L/C Sublimit then in effect, (D) the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt would exceed the Borrowing Base at such date, (E) the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total Revolving Commitments then in effect or (F) from and after December 3, 2009, the Total 2013 Revolving Extensions of Credit would exceed the Total 2013 Revolving Commitments and (ii) the Company shall be a co-applicant, and jointly and severally liable with respect to, each Letter of Credit issued for the account of a Subsidiary that is not a Subsidiary Borrower.  Each Letter of Credit shall (x) be denominated in Dollars or, if agreed by the Issuing Lender, any Optional Currency and (y) expire no later than the date that is one year after the latest Revolving Termination Date in effect at the time such Letter of Credit is issued (or such later date as the relevant Issuing Lender shall agree).
L/C Commitment
Letter of Credit
provided
 
(b)           No Issuing Lender shall at any time be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit if such issuance would conflict with, or cause such Issuing Lender or any L/C Participant to exceed any limits imposed by, any applicable Requirement of Law.
 
3.2           .  The Company or any Subsidiary Borrower may from time to time request that any Issuing Lender issue a Letter of Credit by delivering to such Issuing Lender at its address for notices specified herein an Application therefor, completed to the reasonable satisfaction of such Issuing Lender, and such other certificates, documents and other papers and information as the Issuing Lender may reasonably request.  Upon receipt of any Application, the relevant Issuing Lender will process such Application and the certificates, documents and other papers and information delivered to it in connection therewith in accordance with its customary procedures and shall promptly issue the Letter of Credit requested thereby (but in no event shall any Issuing Lender be required to issue any Letter of Credit earlier than three Business Days after its receipt of the Application therefor and all such other certificates, documents and other papers and information relating thereto) by issuing the original of such Letter of Credit to the beneficiary thereof or as otherwise may be agreed to by the relevant Issuing Lender and the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower.  The relevant Issuing Lender shall furnish a copy of such Letter of Credit to the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower promptly following the issuance thereof.  The relevant Issuing Lender shall promptly furnish to the Administrative Agent notice of the issuance of each Letter of Credit (including the amount thereof).  No Issuing Lender shall issue any Letter of Credit in the period commencing on the first Business Day after it receives written notice from the Administrative Agent that one or more of the conditions precedent contained in Section 5.2 shall not on such date be satisfied, and ending when such conditions are satisfied.  The Administrative Agent shall immediately notify the Issuing Lenders upon becoming aware that such conditions in Section 5.2 are thereafter satisfied.  The Issuing Lenders shall not otherwise be required to determine that, or take notice whether, the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.2 have been satisfied in connection with the issuance of any Letter of Credit.
Procedure for Issuance of Letter of Credit
 
76
3.3           .  The Company will pay a fee (the ) for the account of each L/C Participant with respect to (i) prior to December 3, 2009, its Aggregate Domestic Revolving Percentage and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, its 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage, in each case of the average daily undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit during each Fee Payment Period at a per annum rate equal to the Applicable Margin then in effect with respect to Eurocurrency Loans under the applicable Domestic Revolving Facility, shared ratably among (x) prior to December 3, 2009, the Domestic Revolving Lenders and (y) on and after December 3, 2009, the 2013 Domestic Revolving Lenders, payable in arrears for each Fee Payment Period on the related Fee Payment Date.  In addition, the Company shall pay a fronting fee in an amount agreed separately with each Issuing Lender on the average daily undrawn and unexpired amount of each Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender (other than any Existing Letter of Credit) during each Fee Payment Period, payable in arrears for each Fee Payment Period on the related Fee Payment Date.  For the purposes of the foregoing calculations, the average daily undrawn and unexpired amount of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Optional Currency for any Fee Payment Period shall be calculated by multiplying (i) the average daily undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letter of Credit (expressed in the Optional Currency in which such Letter of Credit is denominated) by (ii) the Exchange Rate for each such Optional Currency in effect on the first Business Day of the related Fee Payment Period or by such other method that the Administrative Agent and the Company may agree.
Fees and Other Charges
Letter of Credit Fee
 
3.4           .  (a)  Each Issuing Lender irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each L/C Participant, and, to induce such Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit, each L/C Participant irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from such Issuing Lender, on the terms and conditions set forth below, for such L/C Participants own account and risk an undivided interest equal to (i) prior to December 3, 2009, such L/C Participants Aggregate Domestic Revolving Percentage and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, such L/C Participants 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage, in each case in such Issuing Lenders obligations and rights under and in respect of each Letter of Credit issued, and the amount of each draft paid, by such Issuing Lender thereunder.  Each L/C Participant agrees with each Issuing Lender that, if a draft is paid under any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender for which the Issuing Lender is not reimbursed in full by the Company or other applicant in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such L/C Participant shall pay to such Issuing Lender upon demand at such Issuing Lenders address for notices specified herein an amount equal to (i) prior to December 3, 2009, such L/C Participants Aggregate Domestic Revolving Percentage and (ii) from and after December 3, 2009, such L/C Participants 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage, in each case of the Dollar Equivalent amount of such draft, or any part thereof, that is not so reimbursed (calculated, in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Optional Currency, as of the Reimbursement Date therefor).  Each L/C Participants obligation to pay such amount shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such L/C Participant may have against any Issuing Lender, the Company, any Subsidiary Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in Section 5, (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Loan Document by the Company, any Subsidiary Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other L/C Participant or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
L/C Participations
 
(b)           If any amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant to any Issuing Lender pursuant to Section 3.4(a) in respect of any unreimbursed portion of any payment made by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit is paid to any Issuing Lender within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such L/C Participant shall pay to any Issuing Lender on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the relevant Issuing Lender, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360.  If any such amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant pursuant to Section 3.4(a) is not made available to the relevant Issuing Lender by such L/C Participant within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such Issuing Lender shall be entitled to recover from such L/C Participant, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans under the Domestic Revolving Facility.  A certificate of the relevant Issuing Lender submitted to any L/C Participant with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
 
77
(c)           Whenever, at any time after any Issuing Lender has made payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any L/C Participant its share of such payment in accordance with Section 3.4(a), such Issuing Lender receives any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from the Company or other applicant or otherwise, including proceeds of collateral applied thereto by such Issuing Lender), or any payment of interest on account thereof, such Issuing Lender will distribute to such L/C Participant its share thereof; , , that in the event that any such payment received by such Issuing Lender shall be required to be returned by such Issuing Lender, such L/C Participant shall return to such Issuing Lender the portion thereof previously distributed by such Issuing Lender to it.
pro
rata
pro
rata
provided
however
 
(d)           Each L/C Participant irrevocably agrees that, on December 3, 2009, such L/C Participants undivided interest in respect of Letters of Credit then outstanding, and unreimbursed drafts paid under any Letter of Credit, shall be redetermined as if such outstanding Letters of Credit had been issued as of such date and shall be equal to (i) in the case of any 2011 Domestic Revolving Lender, zero and (ii) in the case of any L/C Participant that is a 2013 Domestic Revolving Lender, such L/C Participants 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage of the L/C Obligations in respect of such Letters of Credit as of such date.  If a draft is paid on any date thereafter under any Letter of Credit issued by any Issuing Lender for which such Issuing Lender is not reimbursed in full by the Company or other applicant in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such L/C Participant shall pay to such Issuing Lender an amount equal to such L/C Participants 2013 Domestic Revolving Percentage then in effect of the Dollar Equivalent amount of such draft, or any part thereof, that is not so reimbursed; , , that at no time shall such L/C Participants Domestic Revolving Extensions of Credit exceed its 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments.  For the avoidance of doubt, the redetermination provided for in this Section 3.4(d) shall not be subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.2.
provided
however
 
3.5           .  If any draft is paid under any Letter of Credit, the Company or other applicant shall reimburse the Issuing Lender for the amount of the draft so paid, not later than 3:00 P.M., New York City time on the Business Day immediately following the day that the Company receives notice of payment of such draft (such date, the ).  Each such payment shall be made to the relevant Issuing Lender at its address for notices referred to herein in Dollars or the applicable Optional Currency and in immediately available funds; that, in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Optional Currency, if such payment, or obligation to make such payment, in an Optional Currency would subject the Administrative Agent, the relevant Issuing Bank or any Domestic Revolving Lender to any stamp duty, ad valorem charge or any similar tax that would not be payable if such payment were paid or required to be paid in Dollars, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall, at its option, (A) pay the amount of such tax to the Administrative Agent, the relevant Issuing Lender or the relevant Lender or (B) pay the Dollar Equivalent of such draft (calculated as of the Reimbursement Date); , that if such payment is not made on the applicable Reimbursement Date the obligation to pay such draft shall be permanently converted into an obligation to pay the Dollar Equivalent amount of such draft (calculated as of such Reimbursement Date).  Interest shall be payable on any such amounts from the Reimbursement Date until payment in full at the rate set forth in Section 2.21(g).
Reimbursement Obligation of the Company
Reimbursement Date
provided
provided
further
 
78
3.6           .  The obligations of the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower under this Section 3 shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment that the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, as the case may be, may have or have had against any Issuing Lender, any beneficiary of a Letter of Credit or any other Person.  The Company and each relevant Subsidiary Borrower also agrees with each Issuing Lender that such Issuing Lender shall not be responsible for, and the Reimbursement Obligations under Section 3.5 of the Company and any relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, as the case may be, and any beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any other party to which such Letter of Credit may be transferred or any claims whatsoever of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, against any beneficiary of such Letter of Credit or any such transferee.  No Issuing Lender shall be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Letter of Credit, except for errors or omissions found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such  Issuing Lender.  The Company and each relevant Subsidiary Borrower agrees that any action taken or omitted by any Issuing Lender under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or the related drafts or documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall be binding on the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower and shall not result in any liability of such Issuing Lender to the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower.
Obligations Absolute
 
3.7           .  If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Letter of Credit, the relevant Issuing Lender shall promptly notify the relevant Borrower or relevant Subsidiary Borrower of the date and amount thereof.  The responsibility of the relevant Issuing Lenders to the Company or relevant Subsidiary Borrower in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Letter of Credit shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Letter of Credit, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) delivered under such Letter of Credit in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit Payments
 
3.8           .  To the extent that any provision of any Application related to any Letter of Credit is inconsistent with the provisions of this Section 3, the provisions of this Section 3 shall apply.
Applications
 
3.9           .  On and as of the Closing Date the letters of credit and letters of guarantee set forth on Schedule 3.9 (the ) will constitute Letters of Credit under this Agreement and for the purposes hereof will be deemed to have been issued for the account of the Company on the Closing Date and each issuer thereof shall be deemed to be an Issuing Lender hereunder solely for the purposes of Sections 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8 and 3.10 (whether or not such issuer is otherwise an Issuing Lender hereunder).
Existing Letters of Credit
Existing Letters of Credit
 
3.10         .  The Company may at its option at any time and from time to time Collateralize any Letter of Credit (with the consent of the relevant Issuing Lender).  In addition, on or prior to the date that is five Business Days prior to the Revolving Termination Date in respect of 2013 Domestic Revolving Commitments then in effect, the Company shall (or shall cause the relevant Subsidiary to) Collateralize any Letter of Credit with an expiration date occurring after such Revolving Termination Date.  Any Letter of Credit that is Collateralized as provided in this Section 3.10 shall cease to be a Letter of Credit outstanding hereunder effective on the date of such Collateralization and, accordingly, the rights and obligations of Domestic Revolving Lenders in respect thereof (including pursuant to Section 3.4) shall terminate.
Collateral
 
79
3.11         .  (a)  The Company may from time to time (i) terminate any Issuing Lender as an Issuing Lender hereunder (on a prospective basis only) for any reason upon written notice to the Administrative Agent and such Issuing Lender, (ii) add additional Issuing Lenders hereunder and (iii) increase or decrease the L/C Commitment of any existing Issuing Lender.  If the Company shall decide to add a new Issuing Lender under this Agreement, then the Company may appoint from among the 2013 Revolving Lenders (or an Applicable Lending Office thereof) a new Issuing Lender, with the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), whereupon such new issuer of Letters of Credit shall be granted the rights, powers and duties of an Issuing Lender hereunder, and the term Issuing Lender shall mean such new issuer of Letters of Credit effective upon such appointment.  The acceptance of any appointment as an Issuing Lender hereunder in accordance with this Agreement or an increase of the L/C Commitment of any existing Issuing Lender, shall be evidenced by an agreement entered into by such new issuer of Letters of Credit or existing Issuing Lender, as applicable, in a form reasonably satisfactory to such Issuing Lender, the Company and the Administrative Agent and, from and after the effective date of such agreement, such new issuer of Letters of Credit shall become an Issuing Lender hereunder or such increased L/C Commitment shall become effective.  After the termination of an Issuing Lender hereunder, the terminated Issuing Lender shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement or termination, but shall not issue additional Letters of Credit.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the effectiveness of any replacement or addition of an Issuing Lender, or any changed L/C Commitment pursuant to this Section 3.11.
New Issuing Lenders; L/C Commitments
 
(b)           Any Issuing Lender may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by an Applicable Lending Office thereof, in which case, such Applicable Lending Office shall be an Issuing Lender hereunder.
 
 
To induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans and issue or participate in the Letters of Credit and make other extensions of credit hereunder the Company hereby represents and warrants to each Lender that:
 
4.1           .  The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005 (the ) and in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2006 (the ), each as amended on or before the Closing Date and filed with the SEC, present fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GAAP, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of, and for, (a) the twelve-month period ended on December 31, 2005 and (b) the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2006, respectively; that the foregoing representation shall not be deemed to have been materially incorrect if, in the event of a subsequent restatement of such financial statements, the changes reflected in such restatement(s) are not materially adverse to the rights and interests of the Lenders under the Loan Documents (taking into account the creditworthiness of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and the value of the Borrowing Base at such time).
Financial Condition
2005 10-K
Third Quarter 2006 10-Q
provided
 
80
4.2           .  Between the date of filing with the SEC of the Third Quarter 2006 10-Q and the Closing Date, there has been no development or event which has had a Material Adverse Effect.
No Change
 
4.3           .  Each Loan Party (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) has the power and authority to conduct the business in which it is engaged and (c) is duly qualified and in good standing in each jurisdiction where it is required to be so qualified and in good standing, except to the extent all failures with respect to the foregoing clauses (a), (b) and (c) could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence
 
4.4           .  Each Loan Party has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Loan Document to which it is a party and has taken all necessary corporate or other action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance thereof and has duly executed and delivered each Loan Document to which it is a party and each such Loan Document constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Person enforceable against each such Person in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).
Power; Authorization; Enforceable Obligations
 
4.5           .  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the issuance of Letters of Credit, the borrowings hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof will not violate any Requirement of Law or any Contractual Obligation of any Loan Party, except to the extent all such violations could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Legal Bar
 
4.6           .  Except as set forth, or contemplated, in the 2005 10-K, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A of the Company for the three-month period ended March 31, 2006 filed with the SEC, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A of the Company for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2006 filed with the SEC, the Third Quarter 2006 10-Q or the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated December 5, 2006 filed with the SEC, no litigation, investigation, proceeding or arbitration is pending, or to the best of the Companys knowledge, is threatened against the Company or any Significant Guarantor as of the Closing Date that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
 
4.7           .  As of the Closing Date, neither the Company nor any Significant Guarantor is in default under any of its material Contractual Obligations, except where such default could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Default
 
4.8           .  As of the Closing Date, the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor, as applicable, has title in fee simple to the Mortgaged Property and has good title to all of its other property; that the foregoing representation shall not be deemed to have been incorrect, if (a) the property with respect to which the Company or an Initial Subsidiary Guarantor cannot make such representation has a Net Book Value of less than $250,000,000 or (ii) with respect to defects in title to any real property, such defects are cured no later than 180 days after the Closing Date or such defects could not reasonably be expected to detract from the current use or operation of the affected real property in any material respect.  In addition, to the extent that any defect in title to any Mortgaged Property is insured against in any title insurance policy for the benefit of the Collateral Trustee, such defect shall not be taken into account for purposes of the preceding sentence up to the amount of such insurance coverage.
Ownership of Property
provided
 
81
4.9           .  As of the Closing Date, the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor own, or are licensed to use, all Intellectual Property necessary for the operation of their respective businesses as currently conducted and as proposed to be conducted, except where the failure to own or be licensed could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property
 
4.10         .  No part of the proceeds of any Loans, and no other extensions of credit hereunder, will be used for any purpose that violates the provisions of Regulation T, U or X of the Board.
Federal Regulations
 
4.11         .  Each Plan, the Company and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all material provisions of ERISA and all material applicable provisions of the Code, except to the extent that all failures to be in compliance could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
 
4.12         .  No Loan Party is an investment company, or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act; Other Regulations
 
4.13         .  As of the Closing Date, the information set forth on Schedule 1.1D and Schedule 4.13 is true and correct in all material respects; that the foregoing representation shall not be deemed to be materially incorrect unless the failure of such representation to be correct results in property having a having a Net Book Value in excess of $250,000,000 being excluded from the Borrowing Base.
Subsidiary Guarantors; Pledged Equity
provided
 
4.14         .  (a)  The Security Agreement and each Mortgage is effective to create in favor of the Collateral Trustee, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a legal, valid and enforceable security interest in the Collateral described therein; that the foregoing representation shall not be deemed to have been incorrect if (i) such Security Documents are not effective with respect to Collateral having an aggregate Net Book Value of less than $250,000,000, (ii) with respect to any Mortgaged Property, such failure is cured no later than 180 days from the Closing Date or (iii) at any time after the Closing Date, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.25 to 1.00 (calculated on a basis assuming such Collateral for which the Security Documents are not so effective is excluded from the Borrowing Base).
Security Documents
provided
pro
forma
 
(b)           As of the Closing Date, the UCC financing statements listed in Schedule 5.1(h), and the recordation of the Mortgages in the recording offices listed in Schedule 1.1E, are all the filings, recordings and registrations (other than filings required to be made in the United States Patent and Trademark Office) that are necessary to establish a legal, valid and perfected security interest in favor of the Collateral Trustee (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) in respect of all Collateral in which the Lien granted pursuant to the Security Documents on the Closing Date may be perfected by filing, recording or registering in the United States (or any political subdivision thereof) and its territories and possessions, and no further or subsequent filing, refiling, recording, rerecording, registration or reregistration is necessary in any such jurisdiction, except as provided under applicable law with respect to the filing of continuation statements; that the foregoing representation shall not be deemed to have been incorrect to the extent any security interest is not perfected with respect to Collateral having an aggregate Net Book Value of less than $250,000,000.
provided
 
4.15         .  The Company and each Mortgaged Property, and operations thereon, are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Environmental Laws, except to the extent failure to comply would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Laws
 
82
 
5.1           .  This Agreement and the obligation of each Lender to make extensions of credit requested to be made by it hereunder shall be effective upon (1) the execution and delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of a notice authorizing such effectiveness (which notice shall include Schedule 1.1A and the Companys acceptance of the Commitments described therein) and (2) written confirmation by the Administrative Agent to the Company confirming that the following conditions have been satisfied:
Conditions to Effectiveness
 
(a)           .  The Administrative Agent or the Collateral Trustee, as applicable, shall have received:
Credit Agreement; Security Documents
 
(i)          this Agreement (or, in the case of any relevant Lender, an Addendum) executed and delivered by the Administrative Agent, the Company and each Person listed on Schedule 1.1A;
 
(ii)         the Security Agreement, executed and delivered by the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor;
 
(iii)        the Guarantee, executed and delivered by the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor;
 
(iv)        the Trademark Security Agreement, executed and delivered by the Company and the Collateral Trustee;
 
(v)         a Mortgage with respect to each property listed on Schedule 1.1E under the heading Closing Date Mortgages, executed and delivered by the owner of the Mortgaged Property covered thereby; and
 
(vi)        the Collateral Trust Agreement, executed and delivered by the Collateral Trustee, the Administrative Agent, the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
(b)           .  The Administrative Agent shall have received a Borrowing Base Certificate, which calculates the Borrowing Base as of September 30, 2006, demonstrating that the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt (calculated on a basis after giving effect to the incurrence, and the use of proceeds, of any Borrowing Base Debt on the Closing Date) does not exceed the Borrowing Base.
Borrowing Base
pro
forma
 
(c)           .  The Administrative Agent shall have received the results of a recent lien search in respect of the Company and each Initial Subsidiary Guarantor, from the jurisdiction in which such Loan Party is located for purposes of the Uniform Commercial Code of the relevant state(s).
Lien Searches
 
(d)           .  All fees required to be paid on the Closing Date (as separately agreed by the Company and the lead arrangers or the other agents identified on the cover page to this Agreement) shall have been paid.
Fees
 
83
(e)           .  The Administrative Agent shall have received (i) a certificate of each Loan Party, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit N, with appropriate insertions and attachments, including the certificate of incorporation (or equivalent organizational document) of each Loan Party, certified by the relevant authority of the jurisdiction of organization of such Loan Party, (ii) a long form good standing certificate for each Loan Party from its jurisdiction of organization and (iii) a certificate of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the conditions set forth in Section 5.2 have been satisfied.
Closing Certificate; Certified Certificate of Incorporation; Good Standing Certificates
 
(f)            .  The Administrative Agent shall have received the executed legal opinion of (i) Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, New York counsel to the Company and its Subsidiaries, substantially in the form of Exhibit P-1 and (ii) in-house counsel to the Company and its Subsidiaries, substantially in the form of Exhibit P-2.
Legal Opinions
 
(g)           .  The Collateral Trustee shall have received (i) the certificates representing the shares of Capital Stock described on Schedule 4.13 (in each case, to the extent such Capital Stock is certificated and constitutes a certificated security under the UCC), together with an undated stock power for each such certificate executed in blank by a duly authorized officer of the pledgor thereof and (ii) each promissory note described on Schedule 5.1(g), together with an undated endorsement for each such promissory note executed in blank by a duly authorized officer of the pledgor thereof.
Pledged Stock; Stock Powers; Pledged Notes
 
(h)           .  The Collateral Trustee shall have received each Uniform Commercial Code financing statement listed on Schedule 5.1(h) in proper form for filing.
Filings, Registrations and Recordings
 
5.2           .  The agreement of each Lender to make any Loan and the agreement of any Issuing Lender to issue any Letter of Credit (or amendment thereto increasing the face amount thereof) requested to be made or issued by it on any date (including its initial extension of credit) is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent as of the date of such Loan or the date of any request to issue (or amend to increase the face amount of) such Letter of Credit:
Conditions to Each Extension of Credit
 
(a)           .  Each of the representations and warranties made by the Company in or pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date as if made on and as of such date (except to the extent such representations and warranties relate to an earlier date (including those set forth in Sections 4.2, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.13 and 4.14(b)), in which case, such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
Representations and Warranties
 
(b)           .  No Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date, before and after giving effect to the extensions of credit requested to be made on such date and the use of proceeds thereof.
No Event of Default
 
(c)           .  No Default shall be continuing after giving effect to the extensions of credit requested to be made on such date and the use or proceeds thereof; that, if any Default has occurred and is continuing on such date prior to the application of such proceeds, the Company shall have identified such Default in the request for such extension of credit and shall have represented to the Administrative Agent in such request that the proceeds of such extension of credit shall be used to cure such Default prior to such Default becoming an Event of Default.
No Pro Forma Default
provided
 
84
(d)           .  The Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt, after giving effect to the extensions of credit requested to be made on such date and the use of proceeds thereof, shall not exceed the Borrowing Base in effect as of such date.
Borrowing Base Compliance
 
(e)           .  With respect to any Loan made to or Letter of Credit issued for the account of any Subsidiary Borrower, (i) such Subsidiary Borrower shall not have (A) commenced any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors (1) seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or (2) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or (B) made a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there shall not be commenced against such Subsidiary Borrower any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (i) above that (A) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 90 days.
No Subsidiary Borrower Bankruptcy Events
 
Each borrowing, or issuance of a Letter of Credit (or amendment thereto increasing the face amount thereof) hereunder shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Company as of the date of such borrowing or the date of such issuance of a Letter of Credit, that the conditions contained in this Section 5.2 have been satisfied.
 
 
The Company hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments remain in effect, any Letter of Credit or Acceptance remains outstanding or any Loan, Reimbursement Obligations, interest or fee payable hereunder is owing to any Lender:
 
6.1           .  The Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, audited annual financial statements and unaudited quarterly financial statements of the Company within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (or, if the Company is not required to file annual financial statements or unaudited quarterly financial statements with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, then within 15 days after the Company would be required to file the same with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act if it had a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange); , that the foregoing time period shall automatically be extended to the earlier of (a) the date that is five days prior to the date of the occurrence of any event of default (or any comparable term) under any of the Existing Notes as a result of the failure by the Company to provide annual or quarterly financial statements to the extent required under the related Existing Notes Indenture and (b) in the case of audited annual financial statements, within 240 days after the end of the Companys fiscal year, and in the case of unaudited quarterly financial statements, within 220 days after the end of each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year; , , that the such financial statements shall be deemed to be delivered upon the filing with the SEC of the Companys Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for the relevant fiscal period.
Company Financial Statements
provided
provided
further
 
6.2           .  The Company shall deliver (a) statutory audited consolidated annual financial statements for each of FMCC, Ford South Africa, Land Rover Holdings and Volvo, (b) statutory audited annual financial statements for each of Ford Argentina, Ford Canada, Grupo Ford, Ford Mexico and Land Rover and (c) during any period when the Capital Stock of any other Foreign Pledgee has an Eligible Value of greater than $0, the statutory audited annual financial statements for such Foreign Pledgee (commencing with the statements that have been used as the basis for such Eligible Value), in each case, promptly after the same become available; that, if any such financial statements are not delivered within 240 days after the end the fiscal year of the relevant Subsidiary, the Eligible Value of the Capital Stock of such Person (or, in the case of Grupo Ford, the Eligible Value of the Grupo Ford Intercompany Note) shall be deducted from the Borrowing Base until such statements have been delivered to the Administrative Agent but the failure to deliver such financial statements shall not otherwise constitute a Default or an Event of Default hereunder.
Subsidiary Financial Statements
provided
 
85
6.3           .  The Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent:
Compliance and Borrowing Base Certificates
 
(a)           concurrently with the delivery of any financial statements pursuant to Section 6.1, a Compliance Certificate of a Responsible Officer (i) stating that, to the best of such Responsible Officers knowledge, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as of the date of such certificate, except as specified in such certificate, and (ii) unless the lesser of (1) the Total Available Revolving Commitment (including any unused commitment under any Incremental Revolving Facility or any Permitted Additional Senior Facility) and (2) the excess of (x) the Borrowing Base as of such date over (y) the Borrowing Base Debt at such date is equal to or greater than $4,000,000,000, containing a calculation of Available Liquidity as of the last day of the fiscal period covered by such financial statements;
 
(b)           not later than ten Business Days after the delivery of any financial statements pursuant to Section 6.1 (commencing with the delivery of financial statements of the Company for the second full fiscal quarter ended after the Closing Date), a Borrowing Base Certificate duly executed by a Responsible Officer setting forth a calculation of the Borrowing Base and the PDMP Ratio as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter covered by such financial statements; , that, if the delivery of financial statements pursuant to Section 6.1 is delayed beyond 75 days from the end of the relevant fiscal year (in the case of annual statements) or 50 days from the end of the relevant fiscal quarter (in the case of quarterly statements), the Company shall use internal unaudited balance sheets and income statements as necessary to calculate the Borrowing Base and the Canadian Borrowing Base on an interim basis pending delivery of such financial statements and shall deliver an interim Borrowing Base Certificate based upon such Borrowing Base calculation to the Administrative Agent no later than such 75th or 50th day, as applicable (and in such case upon delivery of audited annual or definitive quarterly financial statements, the Company shall recalculate the Borrowing Base and the Canadian Borrowing Base using such audited or definitive financial statements, as the case may be, and provide a revised Borrowing Base Certificate within ten Business Days following such delivery);
provided
 
(c)           not later than five Business Days after the receipt from PricewaterhouseCoopers or other accountants of any audit or report on the Permitted Government First Lien Collateral, a copy of such audit or report.
 
6.4           .  The Company will continue to engage primarily in the automotive business and preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and take all reasonable actions to maintain all rights necessary for the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Business; Existence
 
6.5           .  The Company will, and will cause each Significant Guarantor to, maintain, as appropriate, with insurance companies that the Company believes (in the good faith judgment of the management of the Company) are financially sound and responsible at the time the relevant coverage is placed or renewed, insurance in amounts (after giving effect to any self-insurance which the Company believes (in the good faith judgment of management of the Company) is reasonable and prudent in light of the size and nature of its business) and against at least such risks (and with such risk retentions) as the Company believes (in the good faith judgment of the management of the Company) are reasonable in light of the size and nature of its business.
Maintenance of Property; Insurance
 
86
6.6           .  Promptly upon a Responsible Officer of the Company becoming aware thereof, the Company will give notice to the Administrative Agent of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default.  Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company or the relevant Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto.
Notices
 
6.7             (a)  Within 30 days after the formation or acquisition of any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor (or the making of a single investment or a series of related investments having a value (determined by reference to Net Book Value, in the case of an investment of assets) of $500,000,000 or more in the aggregate by the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, directly or indirectly, in a Domestic Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor that results in such Domestic Subsidiary becoming an Additional Subsidiary Guarantor), the Company shall (or shall cause the relevant Subsidiary to) (i) execute and deliver to the Collateral Trustee such amendments or supplements to the Security Agreement as the Administrative Agent deems necessary to grant to the Collateral Trustee, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a perfected security interest in the Capital Stock of such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor (or Domestic Subsidiary receiving such investment(s)), (ii) deliver to the Collateral Trustee the certificates, if any, representing such Capital Stock (to the extent constituting certificated securities under the UCC), together with undated stock powers, in blank, executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the relevant Loan Party, and (iii) cause such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor (or Domestic Subsidiary receiving such investment(s)) (A) to become a party to the Security Agreement, the Guarantee and the Collateral Trust Agreement, (B) to take such actions as necessary to grant to the Collateral Trustee for the benefit of the Secured Parties a valid, perfected security interest in the Collateral described in the Security Agreement with respect to such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor (or Domestic Subsidiary receiving such investment(s)), including the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements in such jurisdictions as may be required by law.
Additional Collateral, etc.
 
(b)           Within 30 days after the formation or acquisition any new Foreign Subsidiary the Capital Stock of which is owned directly by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor (other than the Capital Stock of any Excluded Subsidiary or any other Subsidiary to the extent the ownership interest in such Subsidiary has a Net Book Value of $500,000,000 or less), the Company shall (or shall cause the relevant Subsidiary to) promptly (i) execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent such amendments or supplements to the Security Agreement as the Collateral Trustee or the Administrative Agent deems necessary to grant to the Collateral Trustee, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a perfected security interest in a portion of the Capital Stock of such new Foreign Subsidiary that is owned by the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor ( that in no event shall more than 66% of the total outstanding Voting Stock of any such new Foreign Subsidiary be required to be so pledged unless the Company in its sole discretion otherwise agrees) and (ii) deliver to the Collateral Trustee the certificates, if any, representing such Capital Stock, together with undated stock powers, in blank, executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor, and take such other action as may be reasonably requested by the Collateral Trustee or the Administrative Agent in order to perfect the Collateral Trustees security interest therein ( that in no event shall such actions require the execution or delivery of a pledge agreement or similar instrument governed by any law other than the laws of the State of New York).
provided
provided
 
87
(c)           The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) grant a security interest in the Capital Stock of any newly-formed or after-acquired joint venture (or a holding company parent thereof) owned directly by the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor if the amount recorded by the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor as its investment in such joint venture exceeds $250,000,000 and (ii) in the case of any domestic joint venture in which the Company directly or indirectly owns at least 80% of the voting or economic interest, to cause such joint venture to become a Subsidiary Guarantor (in each case, it being understood that such efforts shall not require any economic or other significant concession with respect the terms of such joint venture arrangements).
 
(d)           Within 60 days of the occurrence thereof, the Company will notify the Collateral Trustee and the Administrative Agent of any changes to the name, jurisdiction of incorporation or legal form of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
(e)           The Company shall use reasonable efforts to deliver to the Administrative Agent no later than 180 days from the Closing Date (i) a pledge agreement in favor of the Collateral Trustee with respect to the Capital Stock of Volvo and Grupo Ford described on Schedule 4.13 governed by the law of the jurisdiction where such Person is domiciled and an opinion of local counsel as to perfection and enforceability thereof, in each case reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (ii) a reliance letter addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in respect of an opinion of Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP, Canadian counsel to the Company, in favor of the Company with respect to certain collateral securing obligations of Ford Canada under the Ford Canada Intercompany Note and the Ford Canada Intercompany Payable, in each case reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (iii) a Mortgage with respect to each property listed on Schedule 1.1E under the heading Post-Closing Date Mortgages, executed and delivered by the owner of the Mortgaged Property covered thereby and (iv) for each Mortgaged Property and each property listed on Schedule 6.7(e) under the heading Canadian Mortgages, (A) either (1) lenders title insurance insuring the Collateral Trustee and satisfying the requirements of Schedule 6.7(e) hereof or (2) title reports and updated boundary surveys and (B) opinions of local counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (the items in this clause (iv) and the foregoing clause (iii), the  and, together with the items in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii), collectively the ).  If any of the Post-Closing Deliverables are not provided within such 180-day period (A) the Applicable Margin shall be increased by 0.25% until such time as all outstanding Post-Closing Deliverables are delivered and (B) the Borrowing Base will be reduced by the Eligible Value of the Capital Stock for which a Post-Closing Deliverable is outstanding or by the Eligible Value of the Eligible PDMP PP&E for which a Real Estate Deliverable is outstanding (it being understood that the failure to deliver any Post-Closing Deliverable shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default).
Real Estate Deliverables
Post-Closing Deliverables
 
(f)           The Company shall promptly take such steps as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in order to grant, preserve, protect and perfect the validity and priority of the security interests created or intended to be created in the Collateral.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in any other Loan Document, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be required to perfect the security interests granted by it in any Collateral by any means other than by (a) execution, delivery and recordation of a Mortgage, (b) filings pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code of the relevant State(s) (including with respect to fixtures covered by any Mortgage) or equivalent filings under local jurisdictions to the extent required with respect to the pledge of the Capital Stock of any member of the Restricted Pledgee Group, (c) delivery to the Collateral Trustee to be held in its possession of each promissory note listed on Schedule 5.1(g), together with an undated endorsement for each such promissory note executed in blank by a duly authorized officer of the pledgor thereof, and, to the extent certificated and constituting certificated securities under the UCC, Capital Stock listed on Schedule 4.13 or required to be pledged pursuant to Section 6.7(a), together with an undated stock power for each such certificate executed in blank by a duly authorized officer of the pledgor thereof, (d) delivery of each other promissory note or certificated Capital Stock and constituting certificated securities under the UCC constituting Collateral to the extent such promissory note evidences Indebtedness, or such Capital Stock has a Net Book Value, in excess of $250,000,000, together with an undated endorsement or stock power for each such promissory note or certificate, as applicable, executed in blank by a duly authorized officer of the pledgor thereof and (e) filing with the United States Patent and Trademark Office against trademarks listed on Schedule 1.1F.
 
88
(g)           At the request of the Company and notwithstanding Section 10.1(a), the Administrative Agent shall negotiate with the Company in good faith to amend Schedule 1.1B to include a Borrowing Base Amount calculation for any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary that does not have a Borrowing Base Amount at the time such asset becomes Collateral (including the Advance Percentage related thereto and any eligibility or other requirements the Administrative Agent deems reasonably necessary for a determination thereof consistent with the criteria used in determining Borrowing Base Amounts as of the Closing Date).
 
(h)           If any Governmental Authority is granted a Lien by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries on property pursuant to clause (g) of the definition of Permitted Liens (such property ) to secure Permitted Second Lien Debt or Indebtedness incurred or issued in connection with Permitted Second Lien Debt in a single transaction or series of related transactions under the ATVM Program or any successor, replacement or similar program, concurrently therewith the Company shall, or shall cause such Subsidiary to, take such actions as are necessary to grant to the Administrative Agent or another agent or collateral trustee, for the benefit of the First Priority Secured Parties (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement), a valid, perfected, second priority security interest in such Permitted Government First Lien Collateral, which second priority security interest shall be subject to intercreditor provisions substantially identical to the terms and conditions of Section 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Permitted Government First Lien Collateral
 
(i)           To the extent that in connection with any Permitted Government Debt the United States government (or any agency or instrumentality thereof) is named as loss payee or additional insured, as applicable, with respect to any insurance maintained by the Company or any other Loan Party, the Company shall concurrently cause the Collateral Trustee to be named as co-loss payee or co-additional insured, as applicable, with respect to such insurance.
 
(j)           If any Subsidiary that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor guarantees any Permitted Government Debt, the Company shall concurrently cause such Subsidiary (i) to become a party to the Security Agreement, the Guarantee and the Collateral Trust Agreement and (ii) to take such actions as necessary to grant to the Collateral Trustee for the benefit of the Secured Parties a valid, perfected security interest in the Collateral described in the Security Agreement with respect to such Subsidiary, including the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements in such jurisdictions as may be required by law.
 
 
The Company hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments remain in effect, any Letter of Credit or Acceptance remains outstanding or any Loan, Reimbursement Obligations, interest or fee payable hereunder is owing to any Lender:
 
89
7.1           .  The Company shall not permit the Outstanding Amount of Borrowing Base Debt at any time to exceed the Borrowing Base in effect at such time for any period of five consecutive Business Days.
Borrowing Base
 
7.2           .  The Company shall not permit Available Liquidity to be less than $4,000,000,000 at any time.
Available Liquidity
 
7.3           .  Prior to the Collateral Release Date, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary Guarantor to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of the Collateral except Permitted Liens.
Liens
 
7.4           .  Prior to the Collateral Release Date, none of Volvo, any of its Subsidiaries or any member of the Restricted Pledgee Group will incur Indebtedness or provide a Material Guarantee, except:
Restricted Group Debt
 
(a)           Indebtedness of the type described in clause (g) of the definition of Permitted Liens;
 
(b)           Indebtedness incurred under working capital facilities entered into in the ordinary course of business;
 
(c)           Indebtedness owing to the Company or any Subsidiary; that any such Indebtedness owing to a Subsidiary that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be subordinated in right of payment to any Indebtedness owing by Volvo or any of its Subsidiaries or such member of the Restricted Pledgee Group to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor;
provided
 
(d)           Indebtedness consisting of subsidized loans made, or guaranteed, by a governmental or quasi-governmental entity (including any international organization or agency);
 
(e)           Indebtedness outstanding as of the Closing Date and any Permitted Refinancing thereof;
 
(f)            in the case of any member of the Restricted Pledgee Group, any additional Indebtedness; that (i) the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio after giving effect to the incurrence and application of proceeds thereof is at least 1.15 to 1.00 and (ii) any dividends received by the Company from the proceeds of any such Indebtedness in excess of $250,000,000 are reinvested in the Companys business within 15 months or, to the extent not so reinvested, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a) (together with any applicable prepayment premium provided in Section 2.24(b)); and
provided
pro
forma
 
(g)           in the case of Volvo and its Subsidiaries, additional Material Guarantees and Indebtedness in an Outstanding Amount with respect to all such Material Guarantees and Indebtedness not to exceed $1,000,000,000 at any time;
 
, in each case, that the Outstanding Amount of such Indebtedness or Material Guarantees shall reduce the Eligible Value (but not below zero) of the Capital Stock or intercompany notes of such Person that constitute Collateral as provided in Schedule 1.1B.
provided
 
7.5           .
Asset Sale Restrictions
 
90
(a)           . The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary Guarantor to, Dispose of any receivables or inventory included in the Borrowing Base, except in the ordinary course of business.
Receivables and Inventory
 
(b)           .  The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to (i) Dispose of all or any portion of the Capital Stock (including by way of merger), or all or substantially all of the assets, of Jaguar, Land Rover, Aston Martin, Automotive Components Holdings, and/or Automobile Protection Corp., or Dispose of the Jaguar Trade Name or Land Rover Trade Name, unless in each case, the Net Cash Proceeds thereof are reinvested in the business of the Company within 15 months of such Disposition or, to the extent not so reinvested, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a); that if Land Rover is not Disposed of with Jaguar in an integrated transaction, the Disposition of all or any portion of the Capital Stock (including by way of merger) or all or substantially all the assets of Land Rover shall only be permitted if the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio, after giving effect to such Disposition and the application of the proceeds thereof, is at least 1.25 to 1.00 or (ii) Dispose of the Land Rover Trade Name except in connection with a Disposition of Land Rover pursuant to clause (i).
Non-Core Assets
provided
pro
forma
 
(c)           .  The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, Dispose of (i) all or any portion of the Capital Stock (including by way of merger) or to Dispose of (other than in the ordinary course of business or to another Subsidiary or the Company) more than 20% of the then Consolidated Total Assets of Volvo (initially determined based upon the audited financial statements of Volvo for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 and, commencing with the delivery of financial statements of Volvo delivered pursuant to Section 6.2, based upon the most recent consolidated balance sheet of Volvo contained therein) in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, unless (A) after giving effect to such Disposition and the application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.25 to 1.00, (B) the greater of (1) 50% of the Net Cash Proceeds thereof and (2) the amount of such proceeds necessary so that, after giving effect to such Disposition and application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.25 to 1.00, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a) and (C) the remaining Net Cash Proceeds of such Disposition are reinvested in the business of the Company within 15 months of such Disposition or, to the extent not so reinvested, are applied as Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a) or (ii) the Volvo Trade Name except in connection with a Disposition of all or substantially all of the Capital Stock or assets of Volvo.
Volvo
pro
forma
pro
forma
 
(d)           .  The Company shall not permit any Disposition or issuance of the Capital Stock of FMCC that results in the Company owning, directly or indirectly, less than 49% of the outstanding Capital Stock of FMCC.  The Company shall not permit any other Disposition or issuance of the Capital Stock of FMCC unless (i) in the case of a primary offering of Capital Stock of FMCC, the Net Cash Proceeds of such Disposition are reinvested in the business of FMCC within 15 months of such Disposition or, to the extent not so reinvested, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a) and (ii) in the case of a Disposition of the Capital Stock of FMCC by the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, the Net Cash Proceeds thereof in an amount equal to the product of the Eligible Value of such Capital Stock constituting Eligible FMCC Pledged Equity and the Advance Percentage therefor as set forth in the most recent Borrowing Base Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a).
Ford Motor Credit
 
91
(e)           .  The Company shall not permit the Disposition of all or any portion of the Capital Stock (including by way of merger), or all or substantially all of the assets, of Ford Global Technologies, LLC, except pursuant to Section 7.7(b)(i).
Ford Global Technologies
 
(f)           .  The Company shall not Dispose of any Principal Trade Name.
Principal Trade Names
 
(g)           .  The Company shall not Dispose of any Other Principal Trade Name unless (i) after giving pro forma effect to such Disposition and the application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.00 to 1.00 and (ii) the greater of (A) 50% of the Net Cash Proceeds thereof and (B) the amount of such proceeds necessary so that, after giving pro forma effect to such Disposition and application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.00 to 1.00, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a).
Other Principal Trade Names
 
(h)           .  The Company shall not, nor shall it permit, any Subsidiary Guarantor to Dispose of any PDMP having a Net Book Value in excess of $250,000,000 in a single transaction or a series of related transactions unless (i) after giving effect to such Disposition and the application of proceeds thereof, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.00 to 1.00 and (ii) the Eligible Value of the Eligible PDMP PP&E is reduced as provided in Schedule 1.1B.
Material PDMP
pro
forma
 
(i)            .  The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary Guarantor to Dispose of any other Collateral not otherwise covered in paragraphs (a) through (h) above (other than in the ordinary course of business) having a Net Book Value equal to or greater than $500,000,000 in a single transaction or a series of related transactions unless (i) after giving pro forma effect to such Disposition and the application of proceeds therefrom, the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio is at least 1.15 to 1.00 and (ii) Net Cash Proceeds thereof are reinvested in the business of the Company within 15 months of such Disposition or, if not so reinvested, are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a).
Other Material Assets
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.5 to the contrary, (A) any Disposition described in paragraphs (b), (c), (g), (h) or (i) above shall be permitted if (1) 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds of such Disposition are applied as a Mandatory Prepayment pursuant to Section 2.18(a) and (2) at least 75% of the consideration for such Disposition is in the form of cash or cash equivalents and (B) any Disposition described in this Section 7.5 shall be permitted if such Disposition is to the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or, in the case of paragraph (b), any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.  In addition it is understood that the Company and its Subsidiaries may otherwise Dispose of their assets except to the extent expressly restricted pursuant to this Section 7.5 and Sections 7.7 and 7.9.
 
7.6           .  The Company will not (i) pay any dividend (other than dividends payable solely in stock of the Company) on, or redeem, retire or purchase, for cash consideration, its common stock (including any Class B stock, ), (ii) optionally prepay, repurchase, redeem or otherwise optionally satisfy or defease with cash or cash equivalents any Material Unsecured Indebtedness or any Permitted Second Lien Debt and (iii) so long as any Term Loans (other than Tranche B-2 Term Loans) (or any secured refinancing thereof) are outstanding, make any cash payments to holders of convertible debt securities with respect to the conversion value of any convertible debt securities upon the conversion thereof  (any such payment referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), a ), other than:
Restricted Payments
Common Stock
Restricted Payment
 
92
(a)           repurchases of shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants for such Common Stock;
 
(b)           repurchases of shares of Common Stock from officers, directors and employees or any executive or employee savings or compensation plans;
 
(c)           derivatives or forward purchase agreements entered into to hedge obligations to repurchase Capital Stock under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 7.6 or in connection with the issuance of convertible debt securities;
 
(d)           any Permitted Refinancing of Material Unsecured Indebtedness or any Permitted Second Lien Debt; that a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company is delivered to the Administrative Agent at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may reasonably agree) prior to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, together with a reasonably detailed description of the material terms and conditions of such Indebtedness or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Company has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the foregoing requirement and such terms and conditions shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing requirement unless the Administrative Agent notifies the Company within such period that it disagrees with such determination (including a reasonable description of the basis upon which it disagrees);
provided
 
(e)           any Restricted Payments constituting redemption or other prepayment of Material Unsecured Indebtedness having a scheduled final maturity prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date; that such redemption or prepayment occurs no earlier than the date that is six months prior to such scheduled final maturity;
provided
 
(f)            Restricted Payments made prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date pursuant to Section 7.6(f) as in effect prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date and additional Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000,000 during any fiscal year and $500,000,000 in the aggregate from and after the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date;
 
(g)           additional redemptions or prepayments of Material Unsecured Indebtedness or Permitted Second Lien Debt made prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date pursuant to Section 7.6(g) as in effect prior to the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date and additional redemptions or prepayments of Material Unsecured Indebtedness or Permitted Second Lien Debt in an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000,000 during any fiscal year and $500,000,000 in the aggregate from and after the Amendment and Restatement Effective Date;
 
(h)           additional Restricted Payments at any time after January 1, 2010 in an amount not to exceed the Cumulative Growth Amount at such time; that the Company may not make a Restricted Payment of a type described in clause (i) of the definition of such term pursuant to this clause (h) unless the Total Revolving Extensions of Credit at such time do not exceed 50% of the Total Revolving Commitments at such time; and
provided
 
(i)            redemptions or prepayments of Material Unsecured Indebtedness or Permitted Second Lien Debt (i) in exchange for any Capital Stock of the Company, or (ii) in an amount not to exceed the amount of net cash proceeds received by the Company from the issuance of any Capital Stock of the Company from and after May 1, 2009.
 
7.7           .
Fundamental Changes
 
93
(a)           The Company will not merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets to any Person unless no Default or Event of Default is continuing after giving effect to such transaction and (i) it shall be the continuing entity or (ii) (A) the Person formed by or surviving such merger or consolidation shall be an entity organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof, or the District of Columbia that expressly assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Loan Documents pursuant to a supplement or amendment to this Agreement and each other Loan Document reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (B) each Subsidiary Guarantor reaffirms its obligations under the Loan Documents and (C) the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and consistent with the opinions delivered on the Closing Date with respect to the Company.
 
(b)           No Significant Guarantor shall merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets to any Person unless (i) a the Company or another Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing entity or shall be the transferee of such assets or (ii) in connection with an asset sale permitted by Section 7.5.
 
7.8           .  The Company will not itself, and will not permit any Manufacturing Subsidiary to, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or suffer to exist any notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed (notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed being herein called ), secured by pledge of, or mortgage or lien on, any Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property of the Company or any Manufacturing Subsidiary, or any shares of stock of or Debt of any Manufacturing Subsidiary (such mortgages, pledges and liens being hereinafter called Pledge or Pledges), without effectively providing that the Obligations (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other Debt of the Company or of such Manufacturing Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Obligations) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such secured Debt, so long as such secured Debt shall be so secured, unless, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all such secured Debt so secured plus all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Manufacturing Subsidiaries in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions would not exceed 5% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Automotive Assets; , , that this Section 7.8 shall not apply to Debt secured by:
Negative Pledge
Debt
provided
however
 
(a)           Pledges of property of, or on any shares of stock of or Debt of, any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Manufacturing Subsidiary;
 
(b)           Pledges in favor of the Company or any Manufacturing Subsidiary;
 
(c)           Pledges in favor of any governmental body to secure progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or provision of any statute;
 
(d)           Pledges of property, shares of stock or Debt existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) or to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 60 days after, the acquisition of such property or shares or Debt for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof; and
 
(e)           any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), as a whole or in part, of any Pledge referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) to (d), inclusive; , , that such extension, renewal or replacement Pledge shall be limited to all or a part of the same property, shares of stock or Debt that secured the Pledge extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
provided
however
 
94
7.9           .  The Company will not itself, and it will not permit any Manufacturing Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement with any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor (not including the Company or any Manufacturing Subsidiary) or to which any such lender or investor is a party, providing for the leasing by the Company or a Manufacturing Subsidiary for a period, including renewals, in excess of three years of any Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Manufacturing Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property (herein referred to as a ) unless either:
Sales and Leasebacks
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 
(a)           the Company or such Manufacturing Subsidiary could create Debt secured by a Mortgage pursuant to Section 7.8 on the Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property to be leased in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Obligations; or
 
(b)           the Company, within 120 days after the sale or transfer shall have been made by the Company or by a Manufacturing Subsidiary, applies an amount equal to the greater of:
 
(i)          the net proceeds of the sale of the Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property leased pursuant to such arrangement; or
 
(ii)         the fair market value of the Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property so leased at the time of entering into such arrangement (as determined by any two of the following: the Chairman of the Board of the Company, its President, any Executive Vice President of the Company, any Group Vice President of the Company, any Vice President of the Company, its Treasurer or its Controller);
 
to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company; , , that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company shall be reduced by the principal amount of Funded Debt voluntarily retired by the Company within 120 days after such sale.
provided
however
 
 
If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing:
 
(a)           the Company (or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower) shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Loan, any Acceptance Obligation or any Acceptance Equivalent Loan when due, (ii) any interest, facility fee, Letter of Credit Fee, Acceptance Fee or any Reimbursement Obligation hereunder for a period of five Business Days after the same becomes due and payable or (iii) any other amount due and payable under any Loan Document for 30 days after receipt of notice of such failure by the Company from the Administrative Agent (other than, in the case of amounts in this clause (iii), any such amount being disputed by the Company in good faith); or
 
(b)           any representation or warranty made or deemed made by the Company in any Loan Document or any certified statement furnished by the Company (including any Borrowing Base Certificate), shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made or furnished; or
 
(c)           the Company or any Significant Guarantor shall default in the observance or performance of (i) its agreements in Section 6.1, (ii) its agreements in Section 7.1 or Section 7.2  for a period of 20 consecutive days or (iii) any other agreement contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document and, with respect to clause (iii) only, such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof to the Company from the Administrative Agent; or
 
95
(d)           the Company or any Significant Guarantor shall (i) default in making any payment of any principal of any Indebtedness or any Guarantee Obligation in respect of Indebtedness beyond the period of grace, if any; or (ii) default in making any payment of any interest on any such Indebtedness or Guarantee Obligation, in each case beyond the period of grace, if any; , that a default, event or condition described in clause (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (d) shall not at any time constitute an Event of Default unless, at such time, one or more defaults, events or conditions of the type described in clauses (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (d) shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to Indebtedness or any such Guaranty Obligation the aggregate outstanding principal amount of which exceeds $1,000,000,000; or
provided
 
(e)           any Permitted Additional Notes, any Permitted Additional Senior Facilities, any Permitted Second Lien Debt or any other Indebtedness issued or guaranteed by the Company or any Significant Guarantor with an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $1,000,000,000 or more shall have been accelerated by the holders thereof as a result of a default thereunder; or
 
(f)            (i) the Company, any Significant Guarantor, FMCC, a Volvo Group Member or Ford Canada shall (A) commence any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors (1) seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or (2) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or (B) make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there shall be commenced against the Company, any Significant Guarantor, FMCC, a Volvo Group Member or Ford Canada any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (i) above that (A) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 90 days; or
 
(g)           (i) any Plan shall fail to satisfy the minimum funding standard required for any plan year or part thereof or a waiver of such standard or extension of any amortization period has been sought and rejected under Section 412 of the Code; (ii) any Plan is or shall have been terminated or is the subject of termination proceedings under ERISA; (iii) the PBGC shall have terminated a Plan or appointed a trustee to administer any Plan; (iv) any Plan shall have an accumulated funding deficiency which has not been waived; or (v) the Company or any Commonly Controlled Entity has incurred a liability to or on account of a Plan under Section 409, 502(i), 502(l), 515, 4062, 4063, 4064, 4069, 4201 or 4204 of ERISA or Section 4971 or 4975 of the Code; and (b) any of the foregoing has had a Material Adverse Effect; or
 
(h)           one or more judgments or decrees shall be entered in the United States against the Company or any Significant Guarantor that is not vacated, discharged, satisfied, stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60 days, and involves a liability (not paid or fully covered by insurance as to which the relevant insurance company has not denied coverage) of either (a) $100,000,000 or more, in the case of any single judgment or decree or (b) $200,000,000 or more in the aggregate; or
 
96
(i)            the Collateral Trust Agreement or any Security Document shall cease to be in full force and effect, or any Lien thereunder shall cease to be enforceable and perfected (other than pursuant to the terms hereof or any other Loan Document or as a result of acts or omissions by either Agent or any Lender), with respect to Collateral with a Net Book Value in excess of $250,000,000; that the foregoing Event of Default shall only be applicable if the Borrowing Base Coverage Ratio (calculated on a basis assuming such Collateral is not in the Borrowing Base) is less than 1.25 to 1.00; or
provided
pro
forma
 
(j)            the guarantee of any Significant Guarantor or of the Company contained in the Guarantee shall cease to be in full force and effect; or
 
(k)           the occurrence of a Change of Control;
 
then, and in any such event, (A) if such event is an Event of Default specified in paragraph (f) above with respect to the Company, automatically the Commitments shall immediately terminate and the Loans and Acceptances (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing to the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder) shall immediately become due and payable, and (B) if such event is any other Event of Default, either or both of the following actions may be taken:  (i) with the consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Company declare the Revolving Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Revolving Commitments shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Company, declare the Loans and Acceptances (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing to the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder) to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall immediately become due and payable.  With respect to all Letters of Credit with respect to which presentment for honor shall not have occurred at the time of an acceleration pursuant to this paragraph, the Company or the relevant Subsidiary Borrower shall at such time deposit in a cash collateral account opened by the Administrative Agent an amount equal to 105% of the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letters of Credit (calculated, in the case of Letters of Credit denominated in Optional Currencies, at the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the date of acceleration).  Subject to the Collateral Trust Agreement, amounts held in such cash collateral account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to the payment of drafts drawn under such Letters of Credit, and the unused portion thereof after all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, if any, shall be applied to repay other obligations of the Company and any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents.  After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, all Reimbursement Obligations shall have been satisfied and all other obligations of the Company and any Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such cash collateral account shall be returned to the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower (or such other Person as may be lawfully entitled thereto).  Except as expressly provided above in this Section, presentment, demand, protest and all other notices of any kind are hereby expressly waived by the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower.
 
Whenever the Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement shall have become immediately due and payable in accordance with clause (A) or clause (B) above, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith deliver a Notice of Acceleration to the Collateral Trustee; that, by written notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders may, for such periods and/or subject to such conditions as may be specified in such notice, withdraw any declaration of acceleration effected in accordance with clause (B) above.  If a declaration of acceleration in accordance with clause (B) immediately preceding shall have been withdrawn in accordance with the proviso to the immediately preceding sentence, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith deliver to the Collateral Trustee a notice of cancellation of the respective Notice of Acceleration theretofore delivered to the Collateral Trustee.
provided
 
97
Whenever the Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement shall have become immediately due and payable in accordance with clause (A) or clause (B) above, each Specified Currency Loan shall be converted automatically into Dollars at the Exchange Rate in effect on date the Loans shall become so due and payable; , that any Specified Currency Loan held by any Lender that is not paid in full on the Revolving Termination Date for such Lender shall be converted automatically into Dollars at the Exchange Rate in effect on such Revolving Termination Date.
provided
further
 
 
9.1           .  (a)  Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Administrative Agent as the agent of such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and each such Lender irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, in such capacity, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent.
Appointment
 
(b)           The Administrative Agent and each Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Collateral Trustee as its agent under the Collateral Trust Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and irrevocably authorizes the Collateral Trustee, in such capacity, to (i) take such action on its behalf under the provisions of the Collateral Trust Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Collateral Trustee by the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement and the other Loan Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto and (ii) enter into any and all Security Documents and the Collateral Trust Agreement and such other documents and instruments as shall be necessary to give effect to (A) the ranking and priority of Indebtedness and other extensions of credit and obligations contemplated by the Collateral Trust Agreement, (B) the security interests in the Collateral purported to be created by the Security Documents and (C) the other terms and conditions of the Collateral Trust Agreement.   Each Lender further hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement to the same extent as if it were a party thereto and authorizes the Administrative Agent to enter into the Collateral Trust Agreement on its behalf.   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Collateral Trustee shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth in herein, in the Collateral Trust Agreement or in any other Loan Document to which it is a party, or any fiduciary relationship with the Administrative Agent or any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Collateral Trustee.
 
98
9.2           .  Each Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  No Agent shall be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.
Delegation of Duties
 
9.3           .  Neither any Agent nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates shall be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document (except to the extent that any of the foregoing resulted from its or such Persons own gross negligence or willful misconduct) or (ii) responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by any Loan Party or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Agents under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for any failure of any Loan Party a party thereto to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder.  The Agents shall not be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Loan Party.
Exculpatory Provisions
 
9.4           .  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any instrument, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, e-mail, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Loan Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Lenders or any other instructing group of Lenders specified in this Agreement) as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense that may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.  The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a request of the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Lenders or any other instructing group of Lenders specified in this Agreement), and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders and all future holders of the Loans.
Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
9.5           .  The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default unless the Administrative Agent has received notice from a Lender or the Company referring to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a notice of default.  In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders.  The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Lenders or any other instructing group of Lenders specified in this Agreement); that unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Lenders.
Notice of Default
provided
 
99
9.6           .  Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither of the Agents nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates have made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by any Agent hereafter taken, including any review of the affairs of a Loan Party or any affiliate of a Loan Party, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent to any Lender.  Each Lender represents to the Agents that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Loan Parties and their affiliates and made its own decision to make its Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder and enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Loan Parties and their affiliates.  Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of any Loan Party or any affiliate of a Loan Party that may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates.
Non-Reliance on Agents and Other Lenders
 
9.7           .  The Lenders agree to indemnify each Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower to do so), ratably according to their respective Aggregate Exposure Percentages in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Section (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Commitments shall have terminated and the Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with such Aggregate Exposure Percentages immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
Indemnification
provided
 
9.8           .  Each Agent and its affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with any Loan Party as though such Agent were not an Agent.  With respect to its Loans made or renewed by it, any Letter of Credit issued or participated in by it and any other extension of credit made by it hereunder, each Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and the terms Lender and Lenders shall include each Agent in its individual capacity.
Agent in Its Individual Capacity
 
9.9           .  The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days notice to the Lenders and the Company.  If the Administrative Agent shall resign as Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, then the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent for the Lenders, which successor agent shall (unless an Event of Default under Section 8(a) or Section 8(f) with respect to the Company shall have occurred and be continuing) be subject to approval by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent, and the term Administrative Agent shall mean such successor agent effective upon such appointment and approval, and the former Administrative Agents rights, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative Agent or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Loans.  If no successor agent has accepted appointment as Administrative Agent by the date that is 30 days following a retiring Administrative Agents notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and with the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld and, which consent, shall not be required if an Event of Default under Section 8(a) or Section 8(f) with respect to the Company shall have occurred and be continuing), appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agents resignation as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Section 9 shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Successor Administrative Agent
 
100
9.10         .  None of the Syndication Agents or any of the bookrunners, lead arrangers, documentation agents or the agent identified on the cover page to this Agreement shall have any duties or responsibilities under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents in their respective capacities as such.
Bookrunners, Lead Arrangers, Documentation Agents and Syndication Agents
 
 
10.1         .  (a)  Neither this Agreement, any other Loan Document, nor any terms hereof or thereof may be amended, supplemented or modified except in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.1 or as otherwise expressly provided herein.  The Required Lenders and the Company (on its own behalf and as agent on behalf of any other Loan Party party to the relevant Loan Document) may, or, with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Company (on its own behalf and as agent on behalf of any Loan Party party to the relevant Loan Document ) may, from time to time, (i) enter into written amendments, supplements or modifications hereto and to the other Loan Documents for the purpose of adding any provisions to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or of the Loan Parties hereunder or thereunder or (ii) waive, on such terms and conditions as the Required Lenders or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, may specify in such instrument, any of the requirements of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any Default or Event of Default and its consequences; , , that no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modification shall:
Amendments and Waivers
provided
however
 
(A)          forgive or reduce any principal amount or extend the final scheduled date of maturity of any Loan, Acceptance or any Reimbursement Obligation or extend the scheduled date of any amortization payment in respect of any Term Loan (for the purpose of clarity each of the foregoing not to include any waiver of a mandatory prepayment), reduce the stated rate of any interest, fee or prepayment premium payable hereunder (except in connection with the waiver of applicability of any post-default increase in interest rates), or extend the scheduled date of any payment thereof, change the relative rights of the Secured Parties under the Collateral Trust Agreement in respect of payments or Collateral, or increase the amount or extend the expiration date of any Lenders Revolving Commitment, in each case without the written consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby;
 
101
(B)           eliminate or reduce the voting rights of any Lender under this Section 10.1 without the written consent of such Lender;
 
(C)           reduce any percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders, consent to the assignment or transfer by or release of the Company of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, release all or substantially all of the Collateral or release all or substantially all of the Subsidiary Guarantors from their obligations under the Guarantee or the Security Agreement (except as otherwise provided in the Loan Documents), in each case without the written consent of all Lenders;
 
(D)          effect any amendment, modification or waiver that by its terms adversely affects the rights in respect of payment or Collateral of Lenders under any Revolving Facility differently from Lenders under any other Revolving Facility without the written consent of the Majority Facility Lenders in respect of each Revolving Facility adversely affected thereby;
 
(E)           effect any amendment, modification or waiver that by its terms adversely affects the rights in respect of payment or Collateral of Lenders under the Revolving Facilities differently from Lenders under the Term Facility (or vice versa) without the written consent of the Majority Revolving Lenders (or the Majority Facility Lenders under the Term Facility, as applicable);
 
(F)           reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Majority Facility Lenders with respect to any Facility without the written consent of all Lenders under such Facility or reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Majority Revolving Lenders without the written consent of all Revolving Lenders;
 
(G)           after the Closing Date, amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 5.2 without the written consent of the Majority Revolving Lenders,
 
(H)           amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 9 in a manner adverse to the Administrative Agent without the written consent of the Administrative Agent;
 
(I)            amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 9 in a manner adverse to the Collateral Trustee without the written consent of the Collateral Trustee;
 
(J)            amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 2.11, 2.12 or 2.13 without the written consent of each Swingline Lender;
 
(K)           amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 3 without the written consent of each Issuing Lender; or
 
(L)           amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 2.18(a) or the definition of Mandatory Prepayment in a manner that adversely affects the rights of the Tranche B-1 Term Lenders without the written consent of the Majority Facility Lenders under the Tranche B-1 Term Facility;
 
102
Any such waiver and any such amendment, supplement or modification shall apply equally to each of the Lenders and shall be binding upon the Loan Parties, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and all future holders of the Loans.  In the case of any waiver, the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall be restored to their former position and rights hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and any Default or Event of Default waived shall be deemed to be cured and not continuing; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default, or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
(b)           Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph (a), without the consent of the Required Lenders, but subject to any consent required by paragraphs (A) through (K) above, (i) the terms of any Facility may be amended, modified or waived in any manner that does not adversely affect the rights or obligations of Lenders under any other Facility with the written consent of the Majority Facility Lenders in respect of such Facility and (ii) the Administrative Agent and the Company may amend, modify or supplement any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document (with, to the extent applicable, the consent of the Collateral Trustee) to (A) cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency so long as such amendment, modification or supplement does not adversely affect the rights or obligations of any Lender or Issuing Lender, (B) provide additional Collateral for the Obligations and (c) to permit additional affiliates of the Company to guarantee the Obligations and/or provide Collateral therefor.
 
(c)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended with the written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Company and each of the Lenders providing the relevant Replacement Term Loans (as defined below) to permit the refinancing, replacement or modification of all outstanding Term Loans () with one or more replacement term loan tranches hereunder (each, a ), that (i) the aggregate principal amount of such Replacement Term Loans shall not exceed the aggregate principal amount of such Replaced Term Loans, (ii) the weighted average life to maturity of such Replacement Term Loans shall not be shorter than the weighted average life to maturity of such Replaced Term Loans at the time of such refinancing and (iii) the Company shall have paid to the holders of the Replaced Term Loans the prepayment premium, if any, that would be applicable at the date of such refinancing, replacement or modification if such Lender had received a prepayment on such date pursuant to Section 2.17.
Replaced Term Loan
Replacement Term Loans
provided
 
(d)           In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended after the Closing Date without consent of the Lenders, so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as follows:
 
(i)          to designate (w) any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company as a Domestic Subsidiary Borrower, (x) any Subsidiary of the Company organized under the laws of Canada or any province or territory thereof as a Canadian Borrower, (y) any Foreign Subsidiary organized or domiciled under the laws of the United Kingdom, Sweden or Germany as a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower under the Multicurrency Revolving Facility and (z) any other Foreign Subsidiary of the Company as a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower under a New Local Facility or any Incremental Revolving Facility upon (A) ten Business Days prior notice to the Administrative Agent (such notice to contain the name, primary business address and taxpayer identification number of such Subsidiary), (B) the execution and delivery by the Company, such Subsidiary and the Administrative Agent of a Joinder Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit R (each, a ), providing for such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Borrower, (C) the agreement and acknowledgment by the Company and each other Subsidiary Guarantor that the Guarantee and the Security Agreement cover the Obligations of such Subsidiary, (D) the delivery to the Administrative Agent of corporate or other applicable resolutions, other corporate or other applicable documents, certificates and legal opinions in respect of such Subsidiary reasonably equivalent to comparable documents delivered on the Closing Date and (E) the delivery to the Administrative Agent of any documentation or other information reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and necessary to satisfy obligations of the Lenders described in Section 10.18 or any applicable know your customer or other anti-money laundering Requirement of Law; and
Joinder Agreement
 
103
(ii)         to remove any Subsidiary as a Subsidiary Borrower upon (A) execution and delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of a written notification to such effect, (B) repayment in full of all Loans made to such Subsidiary Borrower, (C) repayment in full of all other amounts owing by such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (D) the deposit in a cash collateral account opened by the Administrative Agent of an amount equal to 105% of the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of all Letters of Credit issued for the account of such Subsidiary Borrower (calculated, in the case of Letters of Credit denominated in Optional Currencies, at the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the date of removal) (it being agreed that any such repayment shall be in accordance with the other terms of this Agreement).
 
10.2         .  All notices, requests and demands to or upon the respective parties hereto to be effective shall be in writing (including by telecopy or electronic transmission), and, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when delivered, or three Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, or, in the case of telecopy notice or electronic transmission, when received, addressed as follows in the case of the Company and the Administrative Agent, and as set forth in an administrative questionnaire delivered to the Administrative Agent in the case of the Lenders, or to such other address as may be hereafter notified by the respective parties hereto:
Notices
 
104
 
that any notice, request or demand to or upon the Administrative Agent or the Lenders shall not be effective until received.
provided
 
Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Section 2 or 3 unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender.  The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
 
10.3         .  No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of any Agent or any Lender, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or thereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
10.4         .  All representations and warranties made hereunder, in the other Loan Documents and in any document, certificate or statement delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
105
10.5         .  The Company agrees (a) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent for all its reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development, preparation and execution of, and any amendment, supplement or modification to, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other documents prepared in connection herewith or therewith, the syndication of the Facilities, the consummation and administration of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and any amendment or waiver with respect thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the reasonable fees and disbursements of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include Canada, Sweden, Mexico, each jurisdiction where a Mortgaged Property is located and, without duplication, each other jurisdiction where a Subsidiary Borrower is organized) to be shared by the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Trustee, (ii) filing and recording fees and expenses and (iii) the charges of Intralinks, (b) to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Trustee for all their reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement or preservation of any rights under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of one primary counsel to the Administrative Agent, which counsel shall act on behalf of all Lenders (and if necessary or advisable one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include Canada, Sweden, Mexico, each jurisdiction where a Mortgaged Property is located and, without duplication, each other jurisdiction where a Subsidiary Borrower is organized) to be shared by the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Trustee) and, in the event of any conflict of interest, if necessary or advisable one additional local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction to the Collateral Trustee and one additional primary counsel (and if necessary or advisable one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) to represent all Lenders (other than the Administrative Agent), (c) to pay, indemnify or reimburse each Lender, each Issuing Lender and the Administrative Agent for, and hold each Lender, each Issuing Lender and the Administrative Agent harmless from, any and all recording and filing fees and any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, stamp, excise and similar taxes, if any, that may be payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of, or consummation or administration of any of the transactions contemplated by, or any amendment, supplement or modification of, or any waiver or consent under or in respect of, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, and (d) to pay, indemnify or reimburse each Lender, each Issuing Lender, the Administrative Agent, their respective affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, partners, employees, advisors, agents, controlling persons and trustees (each, an ) for, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from and against any and all other liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (other than with respect to taxes not specifically provided for herein, which shall be governed exclusively by Section 2.26 or with respect to the costs, losses or expenses which are of the type covered by Section 2.25 or Section 2.27) with respect to the execution, delivery, enforcement, performance and administration of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, including, without limitation, any of the foregoing relating to the use of proceeds of the Loans or the violation of, noncompliance with or liability under, any Environmental Law applicable to the operations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of the Mortgaged Properties and the reasonable fees and expenses of legal counsel in connection with claims, actions or proceedings by any Indemnitee against any Loan Party under any Loan Document (all the foregoing in this clause (d), collectively, the ), , that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder to any Indemnitee with respect to Indemnified Liabilities to the extent such Indemnified Liabilities resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or material breach of the Loan Documents by, such Indemnitee, any of its affiliates or its or their respective officers, directors, partners, employees, advisors, agents, controlling persons or trustees.  Without limiting the foregoing, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company agrees not to assert and to cause its Subsidiaries not to assert, and hereby waives and agrees to cause its Subsidiaries to waive, all rights for contribution or any other rights of recovery with respect to all claims, demands, penalties, fines, liabilities, settlements, damages, costs and expenses of whatever kind or nature, under or related to Environmental Laws, that any of them might have by statute or otherwise against any Indemnitee unless the same shall have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or material breach of the Loan Documents by, such Indemnitee, any of its affiliates or its or their respective officers, directors, partners, employees, advisors, agents, controlling persons or trustees.  All amounts due under this Section 10.5 shall be payable not later than 30 Business Days after the party to whom such amount is owed has provided a statement or invoice therefor, setting forth in reasonable detail, the amount due and the relevant provision of this Section 10.5 under which such amount is payable by the Company.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, it is understood and agreed that the Company may ask for reasonable supporting documentation to support any request to reimburse or pay out of pocket expenses, legal fees and disbursements and that the grace period to pay any such amounts shall not commence until such supporting documentation has been received by the Company. Statements payable by the Company pursuant to this Section 10.5 shall be submitted the Company at the address of the Company set forth in Section 10.2, or to such other Person or address as may be hereafter designated by the Company in a written notice to the Administrative Agent.  The agreements in this Section 10.5 shall survive repayment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
Payment of Expenses and Taxes
Indemnitee
Indemnified Liabilities
provided
 
106
10.6         .  (a)  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any affiliate of an Issuing Lender that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) other than pursuant to Section 7.7, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section.
Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments
 
(b)           (1)         Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees (each, an ) all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Loans and/or Acceptances at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (in each case, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of:
Assignee
 
(A)           with respect to any Revolving Facility:
 
(1)         the Company;
 
(2)         the Administrative Agent;
 
(3)         each Material Issuing Lender at such time; and
 
(4)         each Material Swingline Lender at such time;
 
, that none of the foregoing consents in relation to any Revolving Facility shall be required for an assignment to a Revolving Lender or, in the case of the Company only, if an Event of Default under Section 8(a) or (f) has occurred and is continuing.
provided
 
(B)           with respect to any Term Loan:
 
(1)         the Company; and
 
(2)         the Administrative Agent;
 
107
, that none of the foregoing consents in relation to any Term Loan shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund of a Lender or, in the case of the Company only, if an Event of Default under Section 8(a) or (f) has occurred and is continuing.
provided
 
(ii)         Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
 
(A)          except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders Commitments or Loans under any Facility, the amount of the Commitments or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than, in the case of a Revolving Facility, $10,000,000 or, in the case of the Term Facility, $1,000,000 unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that (1) no such consent of the Company shall be required if an Event of Default under Section 8(a) or (f) has occurred and is continuing and (2) such amounts shall be aggregated in respect of each Lender and its affiliates or Approved Funds, if any;
provided
 
(B)           the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and
 
(C)           the Assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an administrative questionnaire.
 
For the purposes of this Section 10.6,  means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
(iii)        Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) below, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the Assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.25, 2.26, 2.27 and 10.5).  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.6 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
(iv)        The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Company, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amount of and interest on the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ).  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Company, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Company, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. The portion of the Register that reflects the Revolving Facilities shall be available for inspection by any Issuing Lender and any Swingline Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
108
(v)        Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an Assignee, the Assignees completed administrative questionnaire (unless the Assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register.  No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
 
(c)           (i)         Any Lender may, without the consent of the Company or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a ) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Loans and/or Acceptances owing to it); that (A) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (C) the Company, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement and (D) no later than January 31 of each year, such Lender shall provide the Company with a written description of each participation of Loans, Acceptances and/or Commitments by such Lender during the prior year (it being understood that any failure to provide notice shall not render the participation invalid).  Any agreement pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver that (1) requires the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby pursuant to the proviso to the second sentence of Section 10.1(a) and (2) directly affects such Participant.  Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Company agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.25, 2.26 and 2.27 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law, and subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.7(b) as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant shall be subject to Section 10.7(a) as though it were a Lender.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 10.6, each Lender shall have the right to sell one or more participations in all or any part of its Loans, Commitments or other Obligations to one or more lenders or other Persons that provide financing to such Lender in the form of sales and repurchases of participations without having to satisfy the foregoing requirements.
Participant
provided
provided
 
(ii)         A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.25 or 2.26 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant.  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any funds directly from the Company in respect of Sections 2.25, 2.26, 2.27 or 10.7 unless such Participant shall have provided to Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Company, such information as is required to be recorded in the Register pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) above as if such Participant were a Lender.  Any Participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.26 unless such Participant complies with Section 2.26(d) and (e) as though it were a Lender.
 
109
(d)           Any Lender may, without the consent of the Company or the Administrative Agent, at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or Assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
 
(e)           The Company, upon receipt of written notice from the relevant Lender, agrees to issue Notes to any Lender requiring Notes to facilitate transactions of the type described in paragraph (d) above.
 
(f)            Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder to its designating Lender without the consent of the Company or the Administrative Agent and without regard to the limitations set forth in Section 10.6(b).  Each of the Company, each Subsidiary Borrower, each Lender and the Administrative Agent hereby confirms that it will not institute against a Conduit Lender or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Lender any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Lender; , however, that each Lender designating any Conduit Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Lender during such period of forbearance.
provided
 
10.7         .  (a)  Except to the extent that this Agreement expressly provides for payments to be allocated to a particular Lender or to the Lenders under a particular Facility, if any Lender (a ) shall, at any time after the Loans and other amounts payable hereunder shall immediately become due and payable pursuant to Section 8, receive any payment of all or part of the Obligations owing to it, or receive any collateral in respect thereof (whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off, pursuant to events or proceedings of the nature referred to in Section 8(f), or otherwise), in a greater proportion than any such payment to or collateral received by any other Lender, if any, in respect of the Obligations owing to such other Lender, such Benefitted Lender shall purchase for cash in Dollars from the other Lenders a participating interest in such portion of the Obligations owing to each such other Lender, or shall provide such other Lenders with the benefits of any such collateral, as shall be necessary to cause such Benefitted Lender to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral ratably with each of the Lenders; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from such Benefitted Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.
Adjustments; Set-off; Revolver Allocation
Benefitted Lender
provided
however
 
(b)           In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, each Lender shall have the right, without prior notice to the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, any such notice being expressly waived by the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law, upon all amounts owing hereunder becoming due and payable (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), to set off and appropriate and apply against such amount any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final), in any currency, and any other credits, indebtedness or claims, in any currency, in each case whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, at any time held or owing by such Lender or any branch or agency thereof to or for the credit or the account of the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, as the case may be.  Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent after any such setoff and application made by such Lender; that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
 
110
(c)           In the case of the Revolving Lenders of any Class, at any time when a Notice of Acceleration is in effect, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 2.24 or the Collateral Trust Agreement, each payment received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any Loan Document in respect of the Obligations of each Loan Party owing to any Revolving Lender of such Class or, in the case of any 2013 Revolving Lenders, any Issuing Lender (as to the Revolving Lenders of any Class, the  of such Class), and each distribution made by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any Loan Document in respect of Revolving Obligations of such Class, shall be distributed to the Revolving Lenders of such Class in accordance with their respective CAM Percentages of such Class.  Any direct payment received by a Revolving Lender of any Class at any time when a Notice of Acceleration is in effect, including by way of set-off, in respect of the Revolving Obligations of such Class shall be paid over to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Revolving Lenders of such Class in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing sentence.  In furtherance of the forgoing and in order to effect the allocation of payments and distributions provided for in this paragraph (c), on the date of each such payment or distribution, each Revolving Lender of the applicable Class shall be deemed to have sold and purchased participations in the Revolving Obligations of such Class and the unfunded Revolving Commitments of such Class under each Revolving Facility of such Class such that, following such deemed exchange, each Revolving Lender of the applicable Class holds, directly or through its Applicable Lending Office, an interest in each one of the Revolving Loans of such Class and other extensions of credit under any Revolving Facility of such Class (including, in the case of 2013 Revolving Lenders, L/C Obligations), and in the unfunded Revolving Commitments of such Class under each Revolving Facility of such Class, equal to such Revolving Lenders CAM Percentage of such Class on such date (the ). For purposes of calculating the appropriate amount to be exchanged in connection with the deemed exchange of interests pursuant to this paragraph, the interest in the Revolving Loans, L/C Obligations and other extensions of credit denominated in any Currency other than Dollars shall be converted into the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the date of exchange.  Each Revolving Lender of any Class consents and agrees to the CAM Exchange in respect of such Class, and each Revolving Lender of any Class agrees that the CAM Exchange in respect of such Class shall be binding upon its successors and assigns and any Person that acquires a participation in its interests in any Revolving Loans, L/C Obligations and other extensions of credit under any Revolving Facility, or in any Revolving Commitment hereunder.
Revolving Obligations
pro
rata
CAM Exchange
 
10.8         .  This Agreement may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Agreement on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.  Delivery of an executed signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.  A set of the copies of this Agreement signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Counterparts
 
10.9         .  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
111
10.10       .  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents represent the entire agreement of the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to the subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein or in the other Loan Documents (other than agreements between the Company and any Swingline Lender or any Issuing Lender contemplated by this Agreement and any Addendum executed and delivered on the Closing Date).
Integration
 
10.11       
GOVERNING LAW
.  THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
10.12       .  Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Company and the Subsidiary Borrowers hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers
 
(a)           submits for itself and its property in any legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the non-exclusive general jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and appellate courts from any thereof;
 
(b)           consents that any such action or proceeding may be brought in such courts and waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
 
(c)           in the case of each Subsidiary Borrower, hereby irrevocably designates the Company (and the Company hereby irrevocably accepts such designation) as its agent to receive service of process in any such action or proceeding; and
 
(d)           waives, to the maximum extent not prohibited by law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any legal action or proceeding referred to in this Section any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages.
 
10.13       .  The obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower in respect of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents due to any party hereto shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the ) other than the currency in which the sum originally due to such party is denominated (the ), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such party of any sum adjudged to be so due in the judgment currency such party may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the original currency with the judgment currency; if the amount of the original currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due under such judgment to such party in the original currency, the Company or such Subsidiary Borrower, as the case may be, agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such party against such loss, and if the amount of the original currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to any party to this Agreement, such party agrees to remit to the Company such excess.  The provisions of this Section 10.13 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and payment of the obligations of the Company and the Subsidiary Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Judgment
judgment currency
original currency
 
112
10.14       .  Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Borrowers hereby acknowledges that:
Acknowledgements
 
(a)           it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
 
(b)           neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to the Company or any Subsidiary arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, and the relationship between Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on one hand, and the Company or any Subsidiary, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
 
(c)           no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Loan Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among the Company or any Subsidiary and the Lenders.
 
10.15       .  (a)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent is hereby irrevocably authorized by each Lender (without requirement of notice to or consent of any Lender except as expressly required by Section 10.1) to take, and the Administrative Agent hereby agrees to take promptly, any action requested by the Company having the effect of releasing, or evidencing the release of, any Collateral or Guarantee Obligations (including by instructing the Collateral Trustee to do so) (i) to the extent necessary to permit consummation of any transaction not prohibited by any Loan Document or that has been consented to in accordance with Section 10.1 or (ii) under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) below.  For the avoidance of doubt any such action shall include directing the Collateral Trustee to take action under the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Releases of Guarantees and Liens
 
(b)           At such time as the Loans, the Reimbursement Obligations and interest and fees owing hereunder shall have been paid in full, the Commitments have been terminated and no Letters of Credit shall be outstanding (or such Letters of Credit are Collateralized), the Obligations shall cease to be Secured Obligations under the Security Documents and the Administrative Agent shall provide notice to the Collateral Trustee thereof in accordance with Section 6.12(a)(A) of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
 
(c)           The Collateral shall be released automatically on the first date (the ) on which each of the following has occurred: (a) the Index Debt has at least two of the following three ratings:  at least Baa3 by Moodys, at least BBB-  by Fitch and/or at least BBB- by S&P, (b) the Term Loans (including any Incremental Term Loans) shall have been paid in full and (c) the Company has delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Trustee a certificate of a Responsible Officer certifying that such conditions have been satisfied and stating that such certificate shall constitute a Collateral Release Notice; , , that any guarantees and liens with respect to other Covered Debt and Permitted Second Lien Debt are released concurrently therewith.  Within three Business Days following the receipt of a Collateral Release Notice, the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Trustee the notice required pursuant to Section 6.12(a) (B) of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Collateral Release Date
provided
however
 
10.16       .  Each of the Administrative Agent and each Lender agrees to keep confidential all non-public information provided to it by any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent or any Lender pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement ; that nothing herein shall prevent the Administrative Agent or any Lender from disclosing any such information (a) to the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any affiliate thereof, (b) subject to an agreement to comply with the provisions of this Section (or other provisions at least as restrictive as this Section), to any actual or prospective Transferee or any pledgee referred to in Section 10.6(d) or any direct or indirect contractual counterparty (or the professional advisors thereto) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company and its obligations, (c) to its employees, directors, trustees, agents, attorneys, accountants and other professional advisors or those of any of its affiliates for performing the purposes of a Loan Document, (d) upon the request or demand of any Governmental Authority or regulatory agency (including self-regulated agencies), (e) in response to any order of any court or other Governmental Authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any Requirement of Law, after notice to the Company if reasonably feasible, (f) if requested or required to do so in connection with any litigation or similar proceeding, after notice to the Company if reasonably feasible, (g) that has been publicly disclosed, (h) to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about a Lenders investment portfolio in connection with ratings issued with respect to such Lender, or (i) in connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
Confidentiality
provided
 
113
10.17       
WAIVERS OF JURY TRIAL
.  THE COMPANY, EACH SUBSIDIARY BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND THE LENDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AND FOR ANY COUNTERCLAIM THEREIN.
 
10.18       .  Each Lender hereby notifies the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the USA Patriot Act), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Company and each Subsidiary Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act
 
114
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


