FILE:F/F-8K-20091201141947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated December 1, 2009 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in November 2009, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 2 - -
 
 
- 3 - -

Exhibit 99
 
 
N
EWS
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CARS, CROSSOVERS DRIVE FORDS NOVEMBER SHARE GAIN
 
DEARBORN,
Mich., Dec. 1, 2009  Strengthened car and crossover sales fueled Ford, Lincoln and Mercurys U.S. sales performance in November.  Car sales were up 14 percent and crossovers were up 26 percent for the month, with total sales of 118,536, essentially equal to year-ago sales.
Consumer demand for our new high-quality, fuel-efficient products is driving Fords market share gains, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing Sales and Service.  Customers are rewarding Ford for its new vehicle lineup, featuring new technologies including SYNC, MyKey and Adaptive Cruise Control.
 
 
 
Ford estimates its total market share in November was higher than a year ago and higher than its share in the first 10 months of 2009.  Fords November retail share was up for the 13 time in 14 months.
th
The Ford plan is working, led by the strength of our product lineup and customer demand for our new cars, utilities and trucks, said Czubay.  Consumers increasingly are noticing that the Ford difference is our great products, our strong business and our leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart technologies and value.
November Sales Highlights
 
 
 
Ford Fiesta
The all-new Fiesta  which debuts Wednesday at the Los Angeles International Auto Show  will further grow Fords car lineup.  This new entry in the U.S.  available in four- and five-door body styles  will set a new small car benchmark for fuel economy, safety, connectivity and powertrain technology in its segment.
North American Production
Ford plans to build 550,000 vehicles in the first quarter 2010, an increase of 201,000 units (58 percent) compared with the first quarter 2009.
Fords fourth quarter production plan is unchanged from the previous forecast of 570,000 vehicles.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 200,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit .
www.ford.com


