FILE:F/F-8K-20101026070234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
- 2 -
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference as Exhibit 99.1 the attached news release dated October 26, 2010 discussing Ford's preliminary third quarter 2010 financial results.
On October 26, 2010, Ford will conduct two conference calls to review preliminary third quarter 2010 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing866-515-2909 (or 1-617-399-5123 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
 
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8613 (or 1-617-399-5132 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 1:00 p.m. on the day of the event through Tuesday, November 2, 2010 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 69678747; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 74222884.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99.1 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. G AAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Ford hereby incorporates by reference as Exhibit 99.2 the attached news release dated October 26, 2010 detailing conversion offers being launched today in respect of its senior convertible debt securities.
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS THIRD QUARTER 2010 NET INCOME OF $1.7
 
BILLION; ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL DEBT REDUCTION ACTIONS
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 10.
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 26, 2010  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported third quarter net income of $1.7 billion, or 43 cents per share, a $690 million improvement from third quarter 2009, as strong products, momentum in North America and continued success at Ford Credit fueled growth amid still-challenging business conditions.
Excluding special items, Ford reported a pre-tax operating profit of $2.1 billion, or 48 cents per share, an improvement of $1.1 billion from a year ago. Ford has posted pre-tax operating profits for five consecutive quarters.
Fords third quarter revenue was $29 billion, a decline of $1.3 billion from the same period a year ago. Excluding Volvo revenue from 2009, Fords revenue in the third quarter was up $1.7 billion compared with the same period a year ago.
Ford North America posted a third quarter pre-tax operating profit of $1.6 billion, a $1.3 billion improvement from third quarter 2009. The company is on track to gain full-year market share in the U.S. for the second straight year, marking the first time since 1993 that Ford has achieved consecutive annual increases.
Ford also announced Automotive debt reduction actions to strengthen the balance sheet, including further paying down its revolving credit line by $2 billion in the third quarter; prepayment of the remaining $3.6 billion of debt owed to the VEBA retiree health care trust by the end of October; and conversion offers on two convertible debt securities in the fourth quarter.
 
This was another strong quarter and we continue to gain momentum with our One Ford plan, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally. Delivering world class products and aggressively restructuring our business has enabled us to profitably grow even at low industry volumes in key regions.
The key drivers for improvement in 2011 will be our growing product strength, a gradually strengthening economy and an unrelenting focus on improving the competitiveness of all our operations, Mulally added.
Automotive operating-related cash flow was $900 million positive in the third quarter, primarily reflecting pre-tax operating profits. Ford finished the third quarter with $23.8 billion in Automotive gross cash, an increase of $1.9 billion since the second quarter. Including available credit lines, total Automotive liquidity was $29.4 billion at the end of the quarter.
 
2
 
 
 
The $2 billion revolver payment, made on Sept. 9, lowers Fords interest expense without impacting its overall liquidity. As of Sept. 30, Fords total Automotive debt was $26.4 billion.
On Friday, Ford will use cash to fully prepay the remaining $3.6 billion of debt it owes the VEBA retiree health care trust. This will lower ongoing annual interest expense by about $330 million. Including the VEBA payment in the fourth quarter, Ford will have reduced its total Automotive debt by $10.8 billion from year-end 2009, which will decrease its ongoing annual interest expense by about $800 million.
In addition, Ford has launched conversion offers for its senior convertible debt securities, of which $3.5 billion is outstanding and $2.6 billion is carried as debt on its Sept. 30, 2010 balance sheet. Holders will be offered a cash premium as an inducement for them to convert the debt into shares of Ford common stock.
Fords debt and interest expense will be reduced to the extent holders elect to accept the conversion offers. Completion of the conversion offers, however, will result in fourth quarter special items charges associated with the cash premium and the non-cash loss related to the debt retirement. Any shares issued under these conversion offers are already reflected in Fords fully diluted earnings per share calculation.
Even without the benefit of these conversion offers, Ford now expects its Automotive cash to be about equal to its debt by year end, earlier than previously expected. This will be an improvement of $8 billion to $9 billion from the end of last year.
 
Our performance through the first nine months has clearly exceeded our initial expectations and is enabling us to make additional significant balance sheet improvements in the fourth quarter, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. We are now in a period where we are focusing on growing the business profitably around the world following the hard work that has been done by the entire Ford team to fix the fundamentals of the business.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
THIRD QUARTER 2010 HIGHLIGHTS
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
 
For the third quarter of 2010, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.3 billion, compared with a profit of $341 million a year ago. The improvement primarily reflects favorable volume and mix, net pricing and exchange, offset partially by higher costs, including higher structural costs to support volume and growth of product plans and higher commodity costs.
 
4
 
 
 
Compared with a profit of $2.1 billion in the second quarter of 2010, Automotive sector pre-tax operating profit decreased by $800 million, explained primarily by lower volume and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable net pricing and lower net interest expense as a result of Ford's debt reduction actions.
Total vehicle wholesales in the third quarter were 1.3 million units. Excluding Volvo from 2009, the wholesale increase was 91,000 units. Worldwide Automotive revenue in the third quarter was $26.7 billion, down from $27.3 billion a year ago. Excluding Volvo from 2009, Automotive revenue increased by $2.4 billion.
For the third quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.6 billion, compared with a profit of $314 million a year ago. The year-over-year increase was explained primarily by favorable volume and mix and net pricing. Third quarter revenue was $16.2 billion, up from $13.4 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the third quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $241 million, compared with a profit of $247 million a year ago. The year-over-year decrease was explained primarily by higher commodity costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing. Third quarter revenue was $2.5 billion, up from $2.1 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the third quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $196 million, compared with a profit of $131 million a year ago. The year-over-year decline primarily reflects lower industry volume and market share and higher costs, including structural costs to support product launch and engineering spending and higher commodity costs. Third quarter revenue was $6.2 billion, down from $7.3 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the third quarter, Ford Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $30 million, compared with a profit of $22 million a year ago. The year-over-year increase is explained primarily by higher industry volume and material cost reductions, offset partially by higher structural costs to support investment in Fords product and growth plans and market mix shifts from mature to emerging markets. Third quarter revenue was $1.8 billion, up from $1.5 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
Other Automotive consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, and resulted in a third quarter pre-tax loss of $369 million, explained primarily by net interest expense of $346 million.
Other Automotive:
 
 
5
 
 
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
 
For the third quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $761 million, compared with a profit of $661 million a year ago.
For the third quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $766 million, compared with a profit of $677 million a year ago. The year-over-year increase primarily reflects a lower provision for credit losses and lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles, offset partially by lower volume and the non-recurrence of prior-year net gains related to unhedged currency exposures.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
OUTLOOK
Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
Ford expects fourth quarter 2010 production to be up 27,000 units compared with year-ago levels. Fourth quarter production will be up 89,000 units compared to third quarter 2010 production, reflecting the normal seasonal increase following summer shutdowns, as well as new product launches and projected industry growth as economic conditions improve. Overall, Fords production plans are consistent with its strategy to match supply to demand.
Ford expects full-year 2010 U.S. industry volume to be 11.6 million units. In the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe, full-year industry volume is expected to be 15 million units.
Each of Fords regions is on track to improve quality compared with a year ago, based on the latest Global Quality Research System surveys.
 
 
6
 
 
In the first nine months of 2010, Automotive structural costs were $700 million higher than a year ago, and commodity costs were $750 million higher. Ford expects full-year Automotive structural and commodity costs each to be about $1 billion higher than a year ago. The higher Automotive structural costs support volume and growth of Fords product plans. As a percentage of revenue, Fords cost structure continues to improve.
Ford expects both its full-year U.S. market share and share of the U.S. retail market to improve compared with a year ago. Europe market share is expected to be down compared to a year ago and Ford expects full-year market share to be consistent with year-to-date performance of 8.6 percent.
Capital expenditures were $2.8 billion in the first nine months. Ford now expects full-year spending to be about $4 billion as the company continues to realize efficiencies from its global product development processes while keeping its product plans on track.
Ford expects to continue to deliver solid results in the fourth quarter with each of its operations being profitable and expects fourth quarter Automotive operating-related cash flow to be positive.
Ford Credits full-year 2010 profits will be higher than 2009, although the company expects its fourth quarter profits to be lower compared with recent quarters because of smaller expected improvements in the provision for credit losses and depreciation expense for leased vehicles.
Overall, Ford will deliver solid profits and positive Automotive operating-related cash flow for 2010, providing a solid foundation for continuing growth.
2011 Outlook
Ford expects to build upon its performance this year with continued improvement in 2011 in total Company profitability and Automotive operating-related cash flow. This includes improvement in its Automotive operations, driven primarily by growing product strength with new vehicles, continued productivity improvements and the gradually strengthening global economy.
In addition, Ford expects each of its Automotive operations to be profitable in 2011. Ford also expects solid profitability for Ford Credit in 2011, although at a lower level than 2010, reflecting primarily the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense and non-recurrence of credit loss reserve reductions of the same magnitude as 2010.
Global industry volume for 2011 is expected to grow from the 2010 level.
 
7
 
 
 
The entire global Ford team remains focused on continuously improving our core operations and expanding the business in key growth regions of the world, Mulally said. Our plan is to continue to improve our competitiveness to deliver profitable growth for all.
Fords 2010 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary third quarter 2010 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
9
 
 
 Available after 1 p.m. EDT the day of the event through Nov. 2
Replays
 
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 163,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln and Mercury, production of which has been announced by the company to be ending in the fourth quarter of 2010. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 
 
10
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2009 Form 10-K Report.
 
11
 
REVENUE RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
 
12
 
 
 
NET INCOME / (LOSS) RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
13
 
INCOME / (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
14
 
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
16
 
AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS RECONCILIATION TO GAAP
 
17

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
FORD ANNOUNCES LAUNCH OF CONVERSION OFFERS
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 26, 2010  Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) announced today that it has launched offers under which it is offering to pay a premium in cash to induce the holders of any and all of its outstanding 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due December 15, 2036 (the 2036 Convertible Notes) and the holders of any and all of its outstanding 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due November 15, 2016 (the 2016 Convertible Notes and, together with the 2036 Convertible Notes, the Convertible Notes) to convert their Convertible Notes into shares of Fords common stock (each a Conversion Offer and together the Conversion Offers).
The 2036 Convertible Notes were issued in 2006 and the outstanding principal amount is approximately $579 million.  The conversion rate with respect to the 2036 Convertible Notes is 108.6957 shares of Ford common stock per $1,000 principal amount.
The 2016 Convertible Notes were issued in 2009 and the outstanding principal amount is $2.875 billion.  The conversion rate with respect to the 2016 Convertible Notes is 107.5269 shares of Ford common stock per $1,000 principal amount.
 
 
 
 
 
Holders who elect to convert their 2036 Convertible Notes into shares of Ford common stock pursuant to the applicable Conversion Offer will receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of their 2036 Convertible Notes converted, the number of shares they would be entitled to receive upon conversion (i.e., 108.6957 shares), plus a cash payment equal to $190.00, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Holders who elect to convert their 2016 Convertible Notes into shares of Ford common stock pursuant to the applicable Conversion Offer will receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of their 2016 Convertible Notes converted, the number of shares they would be entitled to receive upon conversion (i.e., 107.5269 shares), plus a cash payment equal to $215.00, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The shares of Ford common stock that may be issued in the Conversion Offers have been included in Fords calculation of diluted earnings per share since the beginning of the year.
The Conversion Offers are being made on additional terms and conditions which are set forth in an offering circular dated October 26, 2010 (the Convertible Notes Offering Circular) and the related letter of transmittal (the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal), both of which are being made available to holders of the Convertible Notes.  Holders are urged to read the Convertible Notes Offering Circular and Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal carefully when they become available. Copies of the Convertible Notes Offering Circular and the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal may be obtained from Georgeson Inc., the information agent for the Conversion Offers (the Information Agent), by calling toll free at 866-295-8105.
The Conversion Offers will each expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, at the end of Tuesday, November 23, 2010, unless extended or earlier terminated (the Expiration Time).  Any tendered Convertible Notes may be withdrawn prior to, but not after, the applicable Expiration Time, and withdrawn Convertible Notes may be re-tendered by a holder at any time prior to the applicable Expiration Time.
 
2
 
 
 
Consummation of the Conversion Offers is subject to, and conditioned upon, the satisfaction or, where applicable, waiver of certain conditions set forth in the Convertible Note Offering Circular.  Subject to applicable law, Ford may amend, extend, or terminate the Conversion Offers at any time.
Other Required Disclosure
This press release is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to purchase with respect to any securities.  The Conversion Offers are being made only by the Convertible Notes Offering Circular and the related Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal.  Investors should read the Convertible Notes Offering Circular because it contains important information. Investors can get such documents and other filed documents for free at the Commissions web site (www.sec.gov) or by contacting the Information Agent described below.
 
 
The Conversion Offers described in this news release are not being made in any jurisdiction in which, or to or from any person from or to whom, it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation under applicable securities or blue sky laws.  In any jurisdiction where the laws require such offers to be made by a licensed broker or dealer, the Conversion Offers will be deemed to be made on behalf of Ford by one or more registered broker dealers under the laws of such jurisdiction.
 
 
Georgeson, Inc. is serving as the Information Agent for the Conversion Offers.  Persons with questions regarding the Conversion Offers should contact Georgeson at 866-295-8105 (toll free).  Requests for copies of the Convertible Notes Offering Circular or the Convertible Notes Letter of Transmittal may also be directed to Georgeson.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 163,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys brands include Ford, Lincoln and, until discontinued later this year, Mercury.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.


