FILE:F/F-8K-20100701150527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
Our news release dated June 30, 2010 concerning Fords debt reduction actions and the reinstatement of quarterly distributions on the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Trust Preferred Securities of Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II (the Trust Preferred Securities), filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report, is incorporated by reference herein.  The record date for payment of distributions to the record holder of the Trust Preferred Securities is June 30, 2010 for the distribution payable on July 15, 2010.  The New York Stock Exchange, in accordance with its procedures, has established July 1, 2010 as the ex date for the July 15, 2010 distribution.  This means that trades in the Trust Preferred Securities on June 28, 29 and 30, 2010 (the due bill periodR 21;) have a due bill attached for the distribution payable on July 15, 2010.  Beneficial holders who purchased these securities during the due bill period are entitled to receive this distribution, and sellers during the due bill period are not entitled to the distribution.  Beneficial holders who enter into trades to purchase Trust Preferred Securities on or after July 1, 2010 will not be entitled to the distribution payable on July 15, 2010.
 
Our news release dated July 1, 2010 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in June 2010, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Report, is incorporated by reference herein.
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 5 -
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
N
EWS
 
Immediate release
FORD TAKES ACTION TO FURTHER STRENGTHEN
BALANCE SHEET BY REDUCING DEBT BY $4 BILLION
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., June 30, 2010  Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) today is reducing its debt by more than $4 billion  primarily by retiring debt owed to the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust ahead of schedule.  The company said it is taking the action to further strengthen its balance sheet as it gains momentum on its One Ford plan and remains on track to deliver solid profits and positive Automotive operating-related cash flow this year.
Ford is making scheduled payments in cash totaling about $860 million on Notes A and B held by the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust  including about $250 million due under Note A, and $610 million due under Note B.  Ford had the option to pay Note B with cash or Ford stock but agreed to pay with cash.  In addition, Ford and its subsidiary, Ford Motor Credit Company, are paying a combined $2.9 billion to retire the remaining obligation on Note A at an agreed upon discount of 2 percent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separately, Ford is making a $255 million cash payment to bring current previously deferred quarterly distributions on the 6.50% Cumulative Trust Preferred Securities of Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II.
 
With todays actions and an April payment of $3 billion on its 2013 revolving credit facility, Ford will have reduced its debt by more than $7 billion in the second quarter.  The second quarter debt reduction will save Ford more than $470 million in annual interest expense.
Our One Ford plan to profitably grow our business is working, and we are increasingly confident about the future, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We expect to continue to improve our balance sheet as we deliver on our plan. Importantly, our business results make it possible to take these actions while still accelerating the investments we are making in our business to serve our customers with the very best cars and trucks.
We are pleased to make these payments ahead of schedule for the benefit of Ford and our UAW-Ford retirees who count on the Trust for their health care benefits, Mulally said.
The second quarter debt reductions are in addition to a series of actions Ford has taken since early 2009 to improve its balance sheet. These include completing transactions in spring 2009 that reduced Fords Automotive debt obligations by $10.1 billion, and raising more than $5.7 billion since the second quarter of 2009 through several equity and equity-linked offerings.
The VEBA Trust Note Obligations
Pursuant to a March 2008 settlement agreement, the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust was created to assume responsibility for providing retiree health care benefits to eligible Ford-UAW employees and their dependants, the cost of which would be funded with assets contributed by Ford.
 
 
 
2
 
 
The settlement was amended in March 2009 to create Notes A and B, which smoothed Fords payment obligations and gave Ford the option to use Ford stock to make payments under Note B. On Dec. 31, 2009, Ford completed the transfer of assets, including Notes A and B, to the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, and the trust assumed the retiree health care liabilities.
 
June 2010 Agreement
The payments made today result from an agreement last week between Ford and the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust that includes:
We are very pleased with this transaction, which continues the process of diversifying the Trusts assets at very attractive values and assists the thousands of Ford retired employees, their families and survivors and others who look to the Trust to fund their retiree health benefits, said Samuel W. Halpern, president of Independent Fiduciary Services, Inc., the independent fiduciary and investment manager for the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust. 
 
Repayment and Reinstatement of Distributions on Trust Preferred Securities
Ford also announced today that it is paying in cash to the trustee all accrued distributions previously deferred totaling $255 million on the Trust Preferred Securities, and that it intends to resume making quarterly distribution payments starting with the payment due on July 15, 2010.
 
 
 
3
 
 
The accrued distributions will be paid by the trustee on July 15, 2010, to the holders of record of the Trust Preferred Securities on June 30, 2010.  Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities had been deferred in accordance with their terms since April 15, 2009.
Ford said its liquidity and ability to generate positive cash flow are sufficient to warrant reinstatement of the distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities.
About Ford Motor Company
,
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 176,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln and
 
Mercury, production of which has been announced by the company to be ending in the fourth quarter of 2010
and, until its sale, Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit
 
4  

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
N
EWS
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD DELIVERS STRONG, BALANCED SALES IN FIRST HALF 2010; NEW SUPER DUTY, MUSTANG PACE JUNE SALES GROWTH
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., July 1, 2010  Fords newest models helped the company conclude a strong first half as Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealers delivered 170,900 new vehicles in June  a 15 percent increase versus a year ago. Year-to-date sales totaled 954,745, up 28 percent with growth across Fords full family of cars (up 27 percent), utilities (up 24 percent) and trucks (up 32 percent).
Sales for the 2011 F-Series Super Duty were 58 percent higher than a year ago, capturing more than 50 percent of the heavy duty pickup segment  believed to be the first time since year 2000 that Super Duty has achieved a 50 percent share.
 
 
 
1
 
 
Retail sales for the Mustang were 37 percent higher than a year ago. Since the arrival of the 2011 model, featuring new V-6 and V-8 engines that deliver more horsepower and improved fuel economy, Mustangs share has climbed to a level not seen in 13 months.
Another new product, the Ford Fiesta, is on its way to U.S. dealers and their customers.  Highly-acclaimed in Europe and Asia, the Fiesta is the first car developed by ONE Fords global product development system.
New products continue to drive Fords success, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service. Ford and its dealers continue to offer customers the strongest value proposition  leading fuel economy, quality and resale value on a wide range of vehicles.  Thats why our business is growing.
 
In June, Ford retail sales were up 15 percent versus a year ago, and Ford gained retail market share for the 20 time in the last 21 months. Fleet sales also were up 15 percent, primarily reflecting higher sales of Fords hard-working trucks to commercial customers.
th
Strength Across the Lineup
Once again, sales were higher throughout Fords lineup in June  continuing a trend that began in December. Trucks paced the year-to-year results with a sales increase of 25 percent, while cars were up 16 percent and utilities increased three percent. Year-to-date, car sales were up 27 percent, utilities grew 24 percent, and trucks were up 32 percent.
Other sales highlights include:
 
 
2
 
 
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 176,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln and Mercury, production of which has been announced by the company to be ending in the fourth quarter of 2010, and, until its sale, Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
 
3


