FILE:F/F-8K-20100202125559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
   
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
   
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
-2-
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated February 2, 2010 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in January 2010, filed as Exhibit 99 to this report, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-3-
 

 
 
EWS
N
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD KICKS OFF 2010 WITH 24 PERCENT SALES INCREASE,
MARKET SHARE GAIN, THANKS TO PRODUCT LINEUP
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Feb. 2, 2010  Higher sales for every brand and in every product category propelled Ford to a 24 percent sales increase in January versus a year ago.
Ford cars were up 43 percent, crossovers were up 20 percent, sport utilities were up 8 percent, and trucks and vans were up 14 percent.  Among brands, Ford sales were up 26 percent, Lincoln sales were up 16 percent and Mercury sales were up 6 percent.
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
Fords focus on building products consumers want to buy and love to drive will continue, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing Sales and Service.  "In 2010, we will give Ford customers even more reasons to Drive One.
Ford estimates its January U.S. total market share was approximately 16 percent  about 2 percentage points higher than in January 2009.  Last year, Ford posted its first full-year U.S. market share increase since 1995.
Plus, every consumer metric about the Ford brand  including favorable opinion, consideration, shopping and intention to buy  ended the year at record levels.  Last year, favorable opinion improved 27 percent and intention to buy Ford increased 30 percent.
People increasingly are discovering that the Ford difference is the strength of our products, particularly our leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart technologies and value, said Czubay.
Among full-line manufacturers, Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles recorded the largest gain in resale values from the 2009 to 2010 model year.  The projected resale value of Ford vehicles
increased by more than $1,300 per vehicle.  Ford already holds a resale value advantage over its U.S.-based competitors, and it continues closing the gap on key imports with some Ford vehicles already having surpassed competing foreign vehicles.
Resale value is a key indicator of brand health and an important contributor to the total value equation, said Czubay.  Fleet managers monitor vehicle operating costs very carefully.  They are giving Ford more consideration because of our improving resale values.
In January, Ford sales to fleet customers more than doubled  last Januarys depressed levels (up 154 percent) when most fleet owners deferred vehicle purchases due to the credit crunch and uncertain business and economic conditions.
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
Ford posted gains in every fleet market  commercial, government and rental.  On an annual basis, a majority of Fords fleet sales are to commercial and government customers where the Ford F-Series truck and Econoline van have long been top sellers.  Today, products such as Fusion, Taurus and Escape are popular choices among fleet customers.
Additional Sales Highlights
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 198,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 
 
 
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com


