FILE:F/F-8K-20100128080131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
-2-
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated January 28, 2010, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on January 28, 2010 to review preliminary fourth quarter and full year 2009 financial results and 2010 outlook.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-356-4123 (or 1-617-597-5393 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-730-5766 (or 1-857-350-1590 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Thursday, February 4, 2010 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 29481628; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 55865600.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K at times discusses revenue and profits excluding special items for our Automotive and/or Financial Services sectors and the primary operating segments and business units therein.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are revenue and profits including special items.  We believe that revenue and profits excluding special items are useful measures to provide investors, because they exclude items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.  As a result, revenue and profits excluding special items provide investors with relevant measures of the results generated by our operations.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, and loaned securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash (e.g., tax refunds).  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure (,,and ).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
Loaned securities
 
-3-
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
-4-

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS FULL YEAR PROFIT FOR 2009; FOURTH QUARTER 2009 NET INCOME OF $868 MILLION; PLANS TO BE PROFITABLE IN 2010
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*See end notes on page 10.
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 28, 2010  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported a full year 2009 pre-tax operating profit, excluding special items, of $454 million, a $7.3 billion improvement over a year ago.
 
The company said it now expects to be profitable for full year 2010 on a pre-tax basis excluding special items, for North America, total Automotive and total company, with positive Automotive operating-related cash flow.
Ford posted full year net income of $2.7 billion, or 86 cents per share, driven in part by favorable net pricing, structural cost reductions, net gains on debt reduction actions and strong Ford Credit results.  This marks the companys first full year of positive net income since 2005 and a $17.5 billion improvement over 2008.
While we still face significant business environment challenges ahead, 2009 was a pivotal year for Ford and the strongest proof yet that our One Ford plan is working and that we are forging a path toward profitable growth by working together as one team, leveraging our global scale, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  In every part of the world, we are providing customers with great products, building a stronger business and contributing to a better world.  Our progress has helped us gain market share in most of our major markets.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $868 million, or 25 cents per share, a $6.8 billion improvement over a year ago.  Excluding special items, Ford posted pre-tax operating profits totaling $1.8 billion during the fourth quarter, a $5.5 billion improvement from a year ago.  On an after-tax basis, excluding special items, Ford posted an operating profit of $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter, or 43 cents per share, compared with a loss of $3.3 billion, or $1.40 per share, a year ago.
 
Ford North America operations posted a pre-tax operating profit in the fourth quarter, excluding special items, of $707 million, its second straight profitable quarter.  Ford South America, Ford Europe and Ford Asia Pacific Africa also posted pre-tax operating profits in the fourth quarter.
As a result of Fords 2009 U.S. financial performance, the company will pay profit sharing to 43,000 eligible U.S. hourly employees consistent with the 2007 UAW-Ford Collective Bargaining Agreement. The average amount is expected to be approximately $450 per eligible employee.  As previously announced, Ford is not awarding salaried employee performance bonuses globally under the company's bonus plan for 2009 company performance. However, the company did announce that U.S. salaried employees will receive merit increases in 2010, and the company's 401(k) matching program was reinstated on Jan. 1, 2010.
Fords fourth quarter revenue was $35.4 billion, up $6.4 billion from a year ago. Revenue for the full year was $118.3 billion, a decline of $19.8 billion versus a year ago.
2
Ford reduced its Automotive structural costs by $500 million in the fourth quarter. In 2009, Ford achieved $5.1 billion in Automotive structural cost reductions, exceeding its full year target of about $4 billion, largely driven by lower manufacturing and engineering costs, including personnel reduction actions and progress on implementing its common global platforms and product development processes.
Ford finished 2009 with $25.5 billion in Automotive gross cash, compared with $23.8 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2009.  Automotive operating-related cash flow was $3.1 billion positive during the fourth quarter. For the full year, Automotive operating-related cash flow was $300 million negative; an improvement of $19.2 billion from year-ago levels.
Ford continued its balance sheet strengthening actions during the fourth quarter.  The company issued $2.9 billion in a convertible debt offering and also reached an agreement with its revolving lenders to extend the maturities of $7.9 billion of debt commitments to 2013 from 2011.
We delivered very encouraging results in the fourth quarter and for full year 2009 despite severe economic headwinds, although our transformation remains a work in progress, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.  We are committed to staying absolutely focused on executing our plan to deliver profitable growth.
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
For the fourth quarter, Fords Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.1 billion, compared with a loss of $3.3 billion a year ago.  The improvement reflects primarily favorable net pricing, higher volume and mix, lower material costs, and structural cost reductions, offset partially by unfavorable exchange.
 
4
 
Worldwide Automotive fourth quarter revenue was $32.6 billion, up $7.3 billion from a year ago.  The increase is more than explained by higher volumes and favorable net pricing. Total vehicle wholesales in the fourth quarter were 1,440,000 units, compared with 1,139,000 units a year ago.
actions.
As mentioned earlier, Ford reduced its Automotive structural costs by $500 million in the fourth quarter.  In 2009, Ford achieved $5.1 billion in Automotive structural cost reductions, exceeding its full year target of about $4 billion, reflecting primarily lower manufacturing and engineering costs, a reduction in pension and retiree health care expenses, and lower advertising and sales costs as Ford completed major restructuring
On Dec. 31, 2009, Ford concluded its agreement to establish a new VEBA trust that assumed the obligation to provide retiree health care benefits to eligible active and retired UAW Ford hourly employees and their eligible dependents. As part of this agreement, Ford transferred assets into the trust, including two notes which, following payments made on the notes on Dec. 31, 2009, totaling $2.5 billion (including a $500 million prepayment), had a fair value of $7 billion.
Net pricing in the fourth quarter was $1.7 billion favorable compared with a year ago, which was explained by improvements across all of Ford's Automotive operations, including the continued disciplined approach on incentives and selective top-line pricing in the U.S.
For the fourth quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $707 million, compared with a loss of $1.9 billion a year ago.  The improvement was explained primarily by higher volume and mix, favorable net pricing and lower material costs, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. Fourth quarter revenue was $15.8 billion, up from $11.3 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the fourth quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $369 million, compared with a profit of $105 million a year ago.  The increase is more than explained by favorable net pricing and higher volume and mix, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. Fourth quarter revenue was $2.6 billion, up from $1.7 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the fourth quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $305 million, compared with a loss of $338 million a year ago.  The improvement was explained primarily by lower material costs, higher volumes, favorable net pricing, and structural cost reductions, offset partially by unfavorable product mix. Fourth quarter revenue was $8.7 billion, up from $7.6 billion a year ago.
Europe:
For the fourth quarter, Ford Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $19 million, compared with a loss of $208 million a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
 
5
 
The improvement reflects primarily favorable net pricing, China joint venture profits and structural cost reductions. Fourth quarter revenue was $1.6 billion, up from $1.4 billion a year ago.
For the fourth quarter, Volvo reported a pre-tax operating loss of $32 million, compared with a loss of $736 .
Volvo:
million a year ago.  The improvement is explained primarily by structural cost reductions, higher volume and mix, favorable net pricing, and lower material costs, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. Fourth quarter revenue was $3.9 billion, up from $3.3 billion a year ago.  Based on Fords plan to sell Volvo, beginning in the first quarter of 2010 all of Volvo's financial results will be reported as special items and excluded from Fords operating results
Other Automotive, which consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs, was a fourth quarter pre-tax loss of $298 million.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
For the fourth quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $683 million, compared with a loss of $384 million a year ago.
 
For the fourth quarter,
Ford Motor Credit Company:
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $696 million, compared with a loss of $372 million a year ago.  The increase reflected primarily lower residual losses due to higher auction values and lower provisions for credit losses, offset partially by lower volumes.
 
2010 OUTLOOK
 
Despite the severe global downturn, Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
 
Ford says that it plans to be profitable for full year 2010 on a pre-tax basis excluding special items, for North America, total Automotive and total company, with positive Automotive operating-related cash flow, based on its assumptions.
6
 
Although positive, full year Automotive operating-related cash flow is expected to be less than the run rate implied by the strong second half 2009 cash flow.  Recent performance was heavily influenced by seasonal factors, including normal year-end inventory reductions, and significant non-recurring factors such as tax refunds and higher production to rebuild depleted dealer stocks
.
Capital spending is expected to be in the range of $4.5 billion to $5 billion, as Ford continues to focus on its product plan.  This planning assumption excludes Volvo and joint ventures that will be deconsolidated with the adoption of the new accounting standard effective Jan. 1, 2010 related to the consolidation of variable interest entities.  On a comparable basis, 2010 capital spending is up about $1 billion from 2009.
The company has completed major cost reduction actions over the past four years to substantially restructure its business, including personnel levels, facilities and related costs, and the settlement of the UAW retiree health care VEBA agreement. Ford expects Automotive structural costs to be somewhat higher compared with 2009 as it increases production to meet demand.
Ford expects U.S. full year industry sales will be in the range of 11.5 to 12.5 million units, including medium and heavy trucks.  For the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe, the company expects full year industry sales will be in the range of 13.5 to 14.5 million units, including medium and heavy trucks.
The company said it expects its full year U.S. total market share and its share of the U.S. retail market to be equal or improved compared with 2009.  Europe market share is expected to be about equal to 2009.
 
Ford Credit expects to be profitable in 2010, but lower than 2009 based on lower average receivables and the non-recurrence of certain favorable 2009 factors. 
 
Fords full year 2011 guidance remains unchanged. Based on its planning assumptions, the company remains on track to be solidly profitable on a pre-tax basis excluding special items, with positive Automotive operating-related cash flow.
We are more convinced than ever that Ford has the right plan to lead us through the near-term economic and external operating pressures and continue to deliver profitable growth, Mulally said.  The entire extended Ford team is absolutely committed to building on our progress and working together as a lean global enterprise focused on automotive leadership and delivering products with the best quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value around the world.
7
 
Following are the results of Fords 2009 planning assumptions and operating metrics, as well as the company's outlook for 2010:
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
8
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company will release its preliminary 2009 fourth quarter and full year financial results at 7 a.m. EST today. The following briefings will be held after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EST, Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO, and Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for the investment community and news media.
At 11 a.m. EST, Bob Shanks, Ford vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, vice chairman and chief financial officer, Ford Motor Credit Company, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at
. Representatives of the investment community and news media will have the opportunity to ask questions by phone following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 198,000 employees and about 90 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford's products, please visit www.ford.com.
9
 
10
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2008 Form 10-K Report and subsequent Form 10-Q Reports.
11
 
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2009 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2008
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2009 INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS COMPARED WITH 2008 *
12
 
13
 
14
U.S GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH
U.S. GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS*
 
15
 


