FILE:F/F-8K-20101001121549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated October 1, 2010 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in September 2010, filed as Exhibit 99 to this Report, is incorporated by reference herein.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
EWS
N
 
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FOR SECOND YEAR IN A ROW
FORD SEPTEMBER SALES UP 46 PERCENT; FORD ON TRACK TO GAIN MARKET SHARE
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 1, 2010  Consumer demand for Fords fresh lineup of high-quality, fuel-efficient vehicles in September helped the company continue to grow both sales and retail market share.
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury sales in September totaled 160,873, up 46 percent versus a year ago. Fords market share also increased in September, marking the 23 time in the last 24 months that Fords share of the retail market increased.
rd
Year-to-date sales totaled 1.44 million, up 21 percent  growth more than double the overall industry rate. Ford is on track to gain market share for the second year in a row  a result not achieved since 1993.
 
 
1
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
The key to our success in the U.S. market is the relentless cadence of new vehicle, powertrain and technology introductions, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service. Every high-quality, fuel-efficient new vehicle provides Ford and its dealers with an opportunity to reach new customers and build a stronger foundation for future growth.
Fords Newest Products
The Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossovers, the companys latest new products to arrive in dealerships, are the first to offer MyFordTouch and MyLincolnTouch, respectively  state-of-the-art technology to better connect drivers with their vehicle information, entertainment and on-board technologies.  The new Ford Edge features best-in-class horsepower and unsurpassed V6 highway fuel economy.  The new Lincoln MKX offers best-in-class fuel economy and 305 horsepower  an increase of 40 hp versus the prior model.
Sales for the Ford Edge in September totaled 12,815, a record for the month and up 186 percent versus a year ago. Sales for the Lincoln MKX totaled 2,658, the highest sales month in over two years and up 76 percent versus a year ago.
The pace of sales for the all-new Fiesta accelerated in the second half of the month as availability at Ford dealers began to improve. September sales for the highly acclaimed subcompact totaled 3,050.  Fiestas conquest rate is 57 percent  the highest of any Ford product.
Fiesta customers love their new cars, said Czubay. The Fiesta is our strongest proof point yet that our global growth strategy is working. This is important for consumers, dealers and employees to recognize as we prepare to launch the Focus  the next all-new product from Fords global product development system.
Another global product star  the Ford Transit Connect, a small, purpose-built van  launched in North America last summer.  In September, this new vehicle aimed at small businesses posted its highest-ever sales month of 3,571.
 
2
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com
 
 
Fords Balanced Vehicle Portfolio
In September, cars were up 40 percent versus a year ago.  Sales of all Ford cars were up sharply from a year ago:
Utility vehicles were up 61 percent versus a year ago.  In addition to the Edge and MKX:
September truck sales were up 43 percent, thanks in part to a special Ford Truck promotion that continues to the end of October. Highlights include:
For 2011, F-150 further ensures its leadership with an all-new powertrain lineup of four new engines, including a 3.5-liter EcoBoost, and a new six-speed transmission that will deliver class-leading capability and fuel economy.  This truck lineup will be 20 percent more fuel efficient than the 2010 models. F-150 pickups with the new 3.7-liter V6, 5.0-liter V8 and 6.2-liter V8 will be in dealership showrooms later this fall.  The F-150 with EcoBoost will be available for sale early next year.
 
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 159,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln and Mercury, production of which has been announced by the company to be ending in the fourth quarter of 2010. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit www.ford.com.
 
 
 
3
Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
http://media.ford.com


