FILE:F/F-8K-20100602161102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]       Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Our news release dated June 2, 2010 concerning U.S. retail sales of Ford vehicles in May 2010, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report, is incorporated by reference herein.
Our news release dated June 2, 2010 concerning Lincoln and Mercury brands
, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Report, also is incorporated by reference herein.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
EWS
N
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
FORDS U.S. MAY SALES UP 23 PERCENT; SIXTH STRAIGHT
MONTH FORD SALES INCREASE MORE THAN 20 PERCENT
 
DEARBORN, Mich., June 2, 2010  Ford continued to post strong sales and market share gains in May, with Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealers delivering 192,253 new vehicles in May  a 23 percent increase versus a year ago. It marks the sixth month in a row Ford sales have increased more than 20 percent. Year-to-date sales totaled 783,845, up 31 percent.
In May, Ford retail sales were up 19 percent versus a year ago, and Ford gained retail market share for the 19 time in the last 20 months. Fleet sales were up 32 percent, primarily reflecting higher sales of Fords hard-working trucks to commercial customers.
th
 
 
 
Ford is benefiting from a fresh lineup of new, fuel-efficient, high-quality vehicles that deliver industry-leading levels of safety as well as smart design and value.
 
Our laser focus on fuel efficiency and quality is paying off for our customers and for Ford, said Ken Czubay, Ford vice president, U.S. Marketing Sales and Service. Our customers are rewarded because Ford resale values continue to increase at a rate higher than the overall industry  and they are rewarding us with increased purchase consideration.
In April, year-over-year resale values of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles outpaced the industry. Resale values improved 24 percent for Ford versus 19 percent for the industry, based on auction data compiled by the North American Dealers Association (NADA). The margin of improvement was particularly strong on cars, where Ford improved seven points more than the industry average.
Ford also achieved the largest gain of any automaker in Automotive Lease Guides latest Perceived Quality Score, bringing customer perceptions more in line with Fords improved vehicle quality.
Strength Across the Lineup
Once again, sales were higher throughout Fords lineup in May  continuing a trend that began in December. Trucks paced the year-to-year results with a sales increase of 48 percent, while cars were up 9 percent, and utilities were up 18 percent. Year-to-date, car sales were up 29 percent, utilities were up 30 percent, and trucks were up 34 percent.
Our results reflect Fords balanced portfolio of products, said Czubay. Our goal is to offer customers class-leading fuel efficiency, quality, safety, smart design and value in every product and category.
 
 
 
Other sales highlights include:
 
 
 
 
North American Production
In the third quarter of 2010, Ford plans to produce 570,000 vehicles, up 80,000 vehicles (16 percent) versus the third quarter 2009.  The increase reflects higher consumer demand across Fords entire family of cars, utilities and trucks.  Fords second quarter production plan is 640,000 vehicles, up 15,000 vehicles from the prior forecast.
Note: The sales data included in this release and the accompanying tables are based largely on data reported by dealers representing their sales to retail and fleet customers.
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 176,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and, until its sale, Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
   
http://media.ford.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
N
EWS
 
 
 
FORD TO EXPAND LINCOLN LINEUP AND BRAND EMPHASIS;
MERCURY PRODUCTION ENDS IN FOURTH QUARTER OF 2010
 
DEARBORN, Mich., June 2, 2010  Ford Motor Company will expand and enhance its Lincoln brand lineup with seven all-new or significantly refreshed vehicles in the next four years as part of an aggressive growth plan focused on standout product design, class-leading technology and new powertrains  all aimed at competing with Cadillac and Lexus in North America.
Ford also will end production of Mercury vehicles in the fourth quarter of this year to fully devote its financial, product development, production and marketing, sales and service resources toward further growing its core Ford brand while enhancing the Lincoln brand.
 
 
 
 
We have made tremendous progress on profitably growing the Ford brand during the past few years.  Now, it is time to do the same for Lincoln, said Mark Fields, Fords president of The Americas.  The new Lincoln vehicles will transform luxury for North American premium customers through an unexpected blend of responsive driving enjoyment and warm, inviting comfort. We will also offer our customers a world-class retail experience through a vibrant retail network.
Lincolns hallmarks will be refined, modern design, the most fuel-efficient premium powertrains and industry-leading technology that create a unique driver experience both in the cabin and on the road.
Profitably growing Lincoln in North America is an important part of our One Ford plan, said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO. Our Ford brand is gaining momentum and winning customers around the world.  Now, we are going to use the same laser focus to further strengthen Lincoln and deliver even more products luxury customers really want and value.
Foundation Set
The future of Lincoln is building from a strong base that includes the all-new flagship MKS large sedan, the all-new MKT seven-passenger crossover and a significantly refreshed MKZ mid-size sedan  all now in showrooms.  The hybrid version of the MKZ will reach showrooms later this year and is expected to be the most fuel efficient premium sedan on the market.
Lincolns product actions continue later this year with the debut of the significantly refreshed 2011 MKX crossover, the first vehicle to feature MyLincoln Touch driver connect technology.
This will be followed by another six all-new or significantly refreshed vehicles within four years developed with Lincolns DNA of standout design, precise and confident driving experience, class-leading technology and powertrains delivering top performance and fuel efficiency.
 
 
2
 
Lincoln will be led by expanded product development and marketing, sales and service teams to support the brands growth plan and ensure it has a strong cadence of distinct products that are well positioned in the market.  Plans for Lincoln include:
 
 
 
 
 
Lincoln vehicles will reward drivers with smooth, effortless power complemented by agile handling and responsive steering, said Derrick Kuzak, Fords group vice president, Global Product Development.  The cabin is a sanctuary with segment-leading quietness, genuine materials and intuitive, useful technology.
Lincoln has started gaining traction with customers, as evidenced by market share gains during the past five years.  Lincolns share of the retail U.S. luxury vehicle market has grown from 4.5 percent in 2005 to 6.3 percent through the first quarter of 2010.
In addition, Lincolns reputation with consumers has risen, with favorable opinion and purchase consideration reaching its highest level in the past five years.  Lincolns long-term durability was second only to Porsches in the 2010 J.D. Power and Associates Vehicle Dependability Survey.
Mercury
Mercury originally was created as a premium offering to Ford and was an important source of incremental sales.  However, the continued strength of the Ford brand  particularly during the past three years  has accelerated the migration from Mercury to Ford for many customers.
 
 
3
 
Today, Mercurys customer profile, pricing and margins are almost identical to Ford, but Mercurys incremental sales have been declining.
The majority of current Mercury sales are to fleet buyers and customers purchasing through employee, retiree and friends and family discounts, which Ford anticipates largely can be satisfied by Ford brand vehicles.
Of Ford Motor Companys 16 percent market share in the U.S., Mercury accounts for 0.8 percentage points, a level that has been flat or declining for the past several years.  That contrasts with the Ford brand, which has increased market share by 2.2 percentage points so far this year on the strength of new products and improved quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value.
Fords strengthening financial position  including the return to profitability and positive cash flow  allows the company to absorb short-term costs associated with the discontinuation of Mercury and to consolidate future product investments into Lincoln.
Today, there are no stand-alone Mercury dealerships in North America.  Ford is working closely with dealers to maintain properly located stand-alone Lincoln or Ford-Lincoln dealers, which will offer dealers and the company the greatest opportunity for long-term profitable growth.
New operational standards developed with the companys dealers will facilitate a Lincoln customer experience that exceeds the expectations of North American luxury customers.
Personal Attention
Ford will work closely with Mercury dealers and customers during the transition, including providing existing Mercury owners with continued access to parts and service support at Ford and Lincoln dealers and by honoring current warranties, including Fords Extended Service Plans.
 
 
4
 
We are 100 percent committed to supporting Mercury owners through Ford and Lincoln dealerships and working hard to keep them as valued customers in the future, Fields said. At the same time, we will work closely with our dealers to phase out Mercury franchises and continue to build a healthy, growing Lincoln with strong new products and a profitable dealer network that delivers a world-class customer experience.
Mercury owners will receive additional details in the coming days explaining the transition and assuring them that Ford and its dealers will continue to provide all necessary parts and service support for Mercury products.
Ford has notified Mercury dealers of the decision and provided details of a financial package that includes payment in exchange for resigning the franchise.
Ford today also informed dealers of special offers on new Mercury vehicles that will be available through the summer to support the sell down of current Mercury inventory and remaining Mercury vehicle production.
We are taking decisive action and moving into the future with the right plan to deliver profitable growth for all stakeholders, Fields said. These moves position us to continue building momentum through strong brands, great products and an unwavering focus on the customer.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.  With about 176,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and, until its sale, Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 Go to for news releases and high-resolution photographs.
   
http://media.ford.com
 
 
5


