FILE:F/F-8K-20100427081413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 27, 2010, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 27, 2010 to review preliminary first quarter 2010 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8620 (or 1-617-399-5139 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8613 (or 1-617-399-5132 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Tuesday, May 4, 2010 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 73198326; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 99284554.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAA P measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
- 4 -

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS FIRST QUARTER 2010 NET INCOME OF $2.1 BILLION AS STRONG NEW PRODUCTS FUEL PROFITABLE GROWTH
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 8.
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., April 27, 2010  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported first quarter 2010 net income of $2.1 billion, or 50 cents per share, a $3.5 billion improvement from first quarter 2009, as strong selling new products, improvements in its global Automotive operations, and higher profits at Ford Credit boosted results.
Excluding special items, Ford reported pre-tax operating profit of $2 billion, or 46 cents per share, an improvement of $4 billion from a year ago.  It marked Fords highest quarterly pre-tax operating profit in six years.
Ford North America posted first quarter pre-tax operating profit of more than $1.2 billion, a $1.9 billion improvement from first quarter 2009, as a result of higher volume and mix and favorable net pricing.  Ford operations in South America, Europe and Asia Pacific Africa as well as Ford Credit also posted pre-tax operating profits in the first quarter and improved results over the same period in 2009.
The Ford team around the world achieved another very solid quarter, and we are delivering profitable growth, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally. Our plan is working, and the basic engine that drives our business results  products, market share, revenue and cost structure  is performing stronger each quarter, even as the economy and vehicle demand remain relatively soft.
At the end of March, Ford entered into a definitive agreement to sell Volvo and related assets to Zhejiang Geely Holding Group for $1.8 billion, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. The sale is expected to close in the third quarter of 2010. As a result of the agreement to sell Volvo, all of Volvos 2010 results are being reported as special items and excluded from Fords operating results; 2009 data include Volvo.
Fords first quarter revenue was $28.1 billion, up $3.7 billion from the same period a year ago. If Volvo had been excluded from 2009, Automotive revenue would have increased by $7 billion, or more than 30 percent.
 
Ford finished the first quarter with $25.3 billion in Automotive gross cash, an increase of $400 million since year end. Automotive operating-related cash outflow was $100 million during the first quarter, as Automotive pre-tax operating profit was more than offset by changes in working capital and other timing differences, as well as a $300 million payment to Ford Credit reflecting up-front subvention payment. The company ended the first quarter with total Automotive debt of $34.3 billion, an increase of $700 million compared to year-end 2009.
 
2
 
 
On April 6, Ford paid down $3 billion of the drawn amount of its 2013 revolving credit facility. This payment has reduced Automotive gross cash and debt by $3 billion, which will be reflected on Fords second quarter 2010 balance sheet. The action did not affect Automotive liquidity, as the repaid amounts remain available for borrowing.
Special items were a favorable pre-tax amount of $125 million in the first quarter of 2010, or 7 cents per share. Ford recorded a $188 million gain related to held-for-sale adjustments for Volvo, which was offset partially by $63 million of global personnel reductions and dealer-related charges.  If Volvo had continued to be reported as an ongoing operation, Ford would have reported a first quarter pre-tax operating profit of $49 million for Volvo.
We are seeing the benefits of our One Ford plan around the world, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. All of our business operations  North America, South America, Europe, Asia Pacific Africa and Ford Credit  were not only profitable, but also showed substantially improved results over a year ago.
 
ADDITIONAL FIRST QUARTER 2010 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
3
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
For the first quarter of 2010, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.2 billion, compared with a loss of $2 billion a year ago. The improvement reflected higher volume and mix, as well as improvements in net pricing across all Automotive segments.
Total vehicle wholesales in the first quarter were 1.3 million, compared with 986,000 units a year ago.  Worldwide Automotive revenue in the first quarter was $25.4 billion, up from $21 billion a year ago.
For the first quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of more than $1.2 billion, compared with a loss of $665 million a year ago.  The improvement was more than explained by higher volume and mix and favorable net pricing. First quarter revenue was $14.1 billion, up from $10 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the first quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $203 million, compared with a profit of $63 million a year ago.  The increase was more than explained by favorable exchange and net pricing, offset partially by higher costs.  First quarter revenue was $2 billion, up from $1.4 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the first quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $107 million, compared with a loss of $585 million a year ago.  The improvement was explained primarily by higher volume, lower costs, and higher parts profit.  First quarter revenue was $7.7 billion, up from $5.8 billion a year ago.
Europe:
 
 
4
 
For the first quarter, Ford Asia Pacific Africas pre-tax operating profit was $23 million, compared with a loss of $97 million a year ago.  The improvement was more than explained by higher profits of unconsolidated China joint ventures  driven by higher industry volumes , favorable net pricing,  increases in industry volume outside of China and favorable exchange. First quarter revenue was $1.6 billion, up from $1.2 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
Other Automotive consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs and resulted in a first quarter pre-tax operating loss of $391 million, more than explained by net interest expense of $492 million.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
 
For the first quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $815 million, compared with a loss of $62 million a year ago.
Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $828 million in the first quarter, compared with a pre-tax loss of $36 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflected lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles due to higher auction values and a lower provision for credit losses, offset partially by lower volume.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
OUTLOOK
 
Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
 
Overall, Ford said its performance this year is off to a more encouraging start than anticipated. Based on Fords improving performance, the gradually strengthening economy, and its present assumptions, Ford now expects to deliver solid profits this year with positive Automotive operating-related cash flow.
 
Ford expects full-year 2010 U.S. industry sales will be in the range of 11.5 million to 12.5 million, consistent with the guidance previously communicated by the company.
 
5
 
 
In Europe, Ford now expects full-year industry volume will be in the 14 million to 15 million range, which is somewhat higher than the previous guidance.  The change reflects strong first quarter results, although uncertainty remains in Europe about the extent of payback from scrappage programs.
Initial quality improved across all of Fords regions based on the latest Global Quality Research System survey. Ford is on track to meet full-year quality targets.
As mentioned previously, Ford has achieved significant structural cost reductions over the past four years, and in 2010 expects full year Automotive structural costs to be somewhat higher as Ford increases production to meet demand.
Ford expects full year U.S. total market share and its share of the U.S. retail market to be equal or improved compared with 2009 and Europe market share is expected to be equal to 2009.
Ford expects second quarter 2010 production to be up compared with year-ago levels and up compared to first quarter 2010 production. The increase reflects strong customer demand for our products, the maintenance of competitive stock levels, and the non-recurrence of prior year stock reductions.
Ford now expects Ford Credits 2010 profits to be about the same as 2009.  The recent improvements in used vehicle auction values and credit loss performance are expected to offset the effects of lower average receivables and the non-recurrence of certain favorable 2009 factors.
We are absolutely committed to building great products, a stronger business, and contributing to a better world, Mulally said.  Our product lineup is stronger than ever, and our leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value is resonating with consumers.
We remain cautiously optimistic about positive signs emerging in the global economy, while knowing that the recovery is fragile and the global auto industry continues to deal with excess capacity. For us, the most important thing we can do is to stay focused and continue to make progress on our plan, Mulally said.
 
 
6
 
Fords 2010 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary first quarter 2010 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
At 9 a.m. EDT, Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, and Lewis Booth, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will host a call for the investment community and news media to discuss first quarter 2010 results.
 
7
 
 
At 11 a.m. EDT, Bob Shanks, Ford vice president and controller, Neil Schloss, Ford vice president and treasurer, and K.R. Kent, Ford Motor Credit Company vice chairman and chief financial officer, will host a conference call for fixed income analysts and investors.
The presentations (listen-only) and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 176,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln, Mercury and, until its sale, Volvo.  The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.
 
 
 
8
 
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2009 Form 10-K Report.
 
9
 
FIRST QUARTER 2010 NET INCOME/(LOSS) COMPARED WITH 2009
 
2009-2010 FIRST QUARTER INCOME/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
*Special items detailed in table on page 11
 
 
10
 
 
 
11
 
U.S GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH
U.S. GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
12


