FILE:F/F-8K-20100723080014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
- 2-
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated July 23, 2010, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on July 23, 2010 to review preliminary second quarter 2010 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing866-515-2909 (or 1-617-399-5123 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
 
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer K.R. Kent will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8613 (or 1-617-399-5132 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Friday, July 30, 2010 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 37739096; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 36743554.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAA P measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
- 3 -
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD POSTS NET INCOME OF $2.6 BILLION IN SECOND QUARTER 2010; CONTINUES TO DELIVER PROFITABLE GROWTH
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 10.
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., July 23, 2010  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported second quarter 2010 net income of $2.6 billion, or 61 cents per share, a $338 million improvement from second quarter 2009, as each of its major business operations around the world recorded improved profits.
Excluding special items, Ford reported a pre-tax operating profit of $2.9 billion, or 68 cents per share, an improvement of $3.5 billion from a year ago and a $932 million improvement from the prior quarter, and the companys best quarterly performance since the first quarter of 2004. Ford has posted an Automotive and total company pre-tax operating profit for four consecutive quarters.
Ford North America posted a second quarter pre-tax operating profit of $1.9 billion, a $2.8 billion improvement from second quarter 2009.
We delivered a very strong second quarter and first half of 2010 and are ahead of where we thought we would be despite the still-challenging business conditions, said Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally.  We remain on track to deliver solid profits and positive Automotive operating-related cash flow for 2010, and we expect even better financial results in 2011.
Our progress is being led by the strength of our new products and our leaner, global structure, Mulally added.  Customers are responding to our strongest ever product lineup  a full family of vehicles with world-class quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value.
Fords second quarter revenue was $31.3 billion, up $4.5 billion from the same period a year ago. Excluding Volvo revenue from 2009, Fords revenue in the second quarter was up $7.4 billion compared to 2009, or over 30 percent.
Automotive operating-related cash flow was positive $2.6 billion during the second quarter, primarily reflecting pre-tax operating profits and favorable changes in working capital.
Ford finished the second quarter with $21.9 billion in Automotive gross cash, a decrease of $3.4 billion since the first quarter, as a result of substantial debt reduction actions. Including available credit lines, total Automotive liquidity was $25.4 billion at the end of the quarter.
The company ended the second quarter with Automotive debt of $27.3 billion, down $7 billion in the quarter. The reduction included a $3.8 billion payment by Ford to the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, and a $3 billion repayment of Fords revolving credit facility. The debt reduction will save Ford more than $470 million in annualized interest savings.
 
 
2
 
Special items were an unfavorable pre-tax amount of $95 million in the second quarter. Ford recorded $229 million of personnel and dealer-related charges related primarily to the plan to discontinue production of the Mercury brand, which was offset partially by $94 million of favorable held-for-sale adjustments for Volvo and a $40 million gain related to the full pre-payment of Fords VEBA Note A debt obligation at a discount.
The first half cost associated with Mercury discontinuation and total U.S. dealer reductions is expected to be somewhat less than half of the total expected special item charges for these actions during the 2010 to 2011 period.
If Volvo had continued to be reported as an ongoing operation, Ford would have reported a second quarter pre-tax operating profit of $53 million for Volvo, representing a $290 million improvement compared to the second quarter of 2009.
Our fundamental business is strong and we continue to gain momentum around the world, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer.  Profits improved across our global business operations in the second quarter and we made continued progress in paying down our debt and strengthening our balance sheet. 
 
 
SECOND QUARTER 2010 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
3
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
For the second quarter of 2010, Fords worldwide Automotive sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $2.1 billion, compared with a loss of $1.1 billion a year ago. The improvement primarily reflected favorable volume and mix, net pricing and exchange.
Total vehicle wholesales in the second quarter were 1.4 million, compared with 1.2 million units a year ago.  Worldwide Automotive revenue in the second quarter was $28.8 billion, up from $23.6 billion a year ago. Wholesales, revenues and operating results for 2010 exclude Volvo, while 2009 results include Volvo.
For the second quarter, Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of
North America:
$1.9 billion, compared with a loss of $899 million a year ago and a profit of $1.2 billion in the first quarter of 2010. The year-over-year improvement was explained primarily by favorable volume and mix, net pricing and exchange. Second quarter revenue was $16.9 billion, up from $10.7 billion a year ago.
For the second quarter, Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $285 million, compared with a profit of $86 million a year ago and a profit of $203 million in the first quarter.  The year-over-year increase reflects primarily favorable net pricing, favorable exchange, and higher volume, offset partially by higher commodity and structural costs. Second quarter revenue was
South America:
$2.6 billion, up from $1.8 billion a year ago.
For the second quarter, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $322 million, compared with a profit of $57 million a year ago and a profit of $107 million in the first quarter.  The year-over-year increase was explained primarily by lower costs, driven in part by lower spending related to distressed suppliers and a warranty reserve adjustment not expected to reoccur, offset partially by unfavorable net pricing.  Second quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up from $7 billion a year ago.
Europe:
 
4
 
 
For the second quarter, Ford Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $113 million, compared with a loss of $27 million a year ago and a pre-tax operating profit of $23 million in the first quarter.  The year-over-year improvement is more than explained by higher volume, reflecting primarily higher industry, lower costs, and favorable exchange. Second quarter revenue was $1.8 billion, up from $1.2 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
Other Automotive consists primarily of interest and financing-related costs and resulted in a second quarter pre-tax loss of $551 million, explained by net interest expense of $459 million and $92 million of unfavorable fair market value adjustments, associated primarily with Fords investment in Mazda.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
 
For the second quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $875 million, compared with a profit of $595 million a year ago.
 
For the second quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $888 million compared with a profit of $646 million a year ago and a profit of $828 million in the first quarter.  The year-over-year increase reflected primarily a lower provision for credit losses and lower residual losses due to higher auction values, offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior year net gains related to unhedged currency exposures and lower volume.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
OUTLOOK
 
Ford said it continues to make progress on all four pillars of its plan:
 
Ford expects third quarter 2010 production to be up 126,000 units compared with year-ago levels, reflecting continued strong demand for Ford products, maintenance of competitive stock levels, and the non-recurrence of prior-year stock reductions. Third quarter production will be down 174,000 units compared to second quarter 2010 production, reflecting planned vacation shutdowns during the third quarter that generally are used to prepare for new models.
 
 
5
 
Fourth quarter production also will be affected by planned holiday shutdowns and new product changeovers for vehicles such as Focus and Explorer. Overall, Fords third and fourth quarter production schedule is lower than the first half but consistent with the companys strategy to match supply with demand.
Ford expects full-year 2010 U.S. industry volume will be in the range of 11.5 million to 12 million units. In the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe, full-year industry volume is expected to be in the 14.5 million to 15 million unit range, reflecting a stronger-than-expected first half offset by a weaker second half.
Ford now expects full-year 2010 U.S. total market share and its share of the U.S. retail market to be improved compared with 2009. Europe market share for the full year is now expected to be about equal to the first half of 2010, but lower than 2009, reflecting the companys decision to limit increases in incentives in the region.
Ford is on track to improve full-year quality for all regions, compared with a year ago.
Ford has achieved significant structural cost reductions over the past four years. In 2010, Ford expects full-year Automotive structural costs to be about $1 billion higher to support growth and key product introductions. Fords cost structure, however, continues to improve as a percentage of revenue. Ford also expects full-year commodity costs to increase by about $1 billion.
Capital expenditures were $1.9 billion in the first half.  Ford expects full-year capital spending to be about $4.5 billion to support its product plan, as the company continues to realize efficiencies from its global product development processes.
Ford Credit now expects full-year 2010 profits to be higher than its 2009 profits. The second half of 2010, will be lower than the first half because Ford Credit expects smaller improvements in the provision for credit losses and depreciation expense for leased vehicles compared with the improvements during the first half.
Ford expects to have solid financial results in the second half, continuing to exceed the expectations it had earlier this year.
 
6
 
 
As in most years, Fords first half results will be stronger than second half, reflecting normal seasonality  including lower second half volumes related to planned shutdowns and product launches.  This year, Ford also expects higher investment and costs in the second half to support growth and key product introductions, as well as higher commodity costs and smaller reductions in reserves at Ford Credit.
Overall, Ford is on track to deliver solid profits and positive Automotive operating-related cash flow for 2010, providing a solid foundation for continuing growth.
2011 Outlook
 
For 2011, based on present planning assumptions, Ford expects continued improvement in total company profitability and Automotive operating-related cash flow, including improvements in its Automotive operations. These improvements are driven primarily by the growing strength of Fords global products, continued cost structure improvements and the gradually strengthening global economy.
Ford Credit will continue to be solidly profitable for 2011 but at a lower level than 2010, reflecting primarily a lower occurrence of this years favorable factors.
By the end of 2011, Ford expects to move from a net Automotive debt position to a net cash position.
Overall, Ford said its performance gives it great confidence going forward. It has aggressively restructured its business to be profitable in the current environment and, going forward, it will continue to:
 
Our business performance this year and the growing success of our products give us great confidence going forward, Mulally said.  Our plan is to continue to enhance our operational excellence and improve our competitiveness to continue to deliver profitable growth for everyone associated with Ford.
 
7
 
 
Fords 2010 planning assumptions regarding the industry and operating metrics include the following:
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
8
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary second quarter 2010 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 178,000 employees and about 80 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford, Lincoln and Mercury, production of which has been announced by the company to be ending in the fourth quarter of 2010, and, until its sale, Volvo. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 
 
10
 
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2009 Form 10-K Report.
 
11
 
SECOND QUARTER & FIRST HALF 2010 REVENUE AND NET INCOME/(LOSS)
COMPARED WITH 2009
 
 
12
 
2009-2010 SECOND QUARTER & FIRST HALF INCOME/(LOSS)
FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
U.S GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE GROSS CASH
U.S. GAAP RECONCILIATION OF AUTOMOTIVE OPERATING-RELATED CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
16


