FILE:F/F-8K-20110128072016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
- 2 -
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated January 28, 2011, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on January 28, 2011 to review preliminary fourth quarter and full year 2010 financial results and 2011 outlook.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8613 (or 1-617-399-5132 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Chief Financial Officer Mike Seneski will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8619 (or 1-617-399-5138 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors may also access replays of the presentations after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Friday, February 4, 2011 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 32314321; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 46401200.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAA P measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 4-
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FORD REPORTS 2010 FULL YEAR NET INCOME OF $6.6 BILLION;
FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $190 MILLION
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 28, 2011  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported 2010 full year net income of $6.6 billion, or $1.66 per share, an increase of $3.8 billion, or 80 cents per share, from 2009. This was Fords highest net income in more than 10 years, as strong products and new investments fueled improvements in all of the companys business operations around the world.
Our 2010 results exceeded our expectations, accelerating our transition from fixing the business fundamentals to delivering profitable growth for all, said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO.  We are investing in an unprecedented amount of products, technology and growth in all regions of the world.
Full year 2010 pre-tax operating profit was $8.3 billion, or $1.91 per share, an increase of $8.3 billion, or $1.90 per share, from a year ago. This increase reflects a profit in each Automotive segment led by strong performance in North America, reflecting primarily favorable volume and mix as well as favorable net pricing.  Ford Credits strong profit also contributed significantly to Fords full year performance.
Ford made significant progress in strengthening its balance sheet, reducing Automotive debt by $14.5 billion in 2010, a 43 percent reduction. These actions will lower annualized interest expense by more than $1 billion. Ford finished the year with Automotive gross cash exceeding debt by $1.4 billion. Fourth quarter actions reduced Automotive debt by $7.3 billion, including $2.5 billion of newly announced debt reductions to pay down Fords revolving credit facility and term loans.
Ford reported fourth quarter net income of $190 million, or 5 cents per share, a decrease of $696 million, or 20 cents per share, from the fourth quarter of 2009. This includes the negative impact of special items of $1 billion, primarily associated with a previously disclosed $960 million charge related to the completion of debt conversion offers that reduced outstanding Automotive debt by over $1.9 billion.
Ford earned a pre-tax operating profit of $1.3 billion, or 30 cents per share, in the fourth quarter, marking the sixth consecutive quarter of pre-tax operating profit. This is a decrease of $322 million, or 13 cents per share, from the fourth quarter of 2009.
Fourth quarter Automotive pre-tax operating profit was $741 million, a decrease of $173 million from a year ago.  Fourth quarter Financial Services pre-tax operating profit was $552 million, a decrease of $149 million from a year ago, which includes a pre-tax operating profit of $572 million for Ford Credit.
North America posted a fourth quarter pre-tax operating profit of $670 million, a $59 million increase compared with 2009. Full year North America pre-tax operating profit was $5.4 billion, an improvement of more than $6 billion from a year ago.  South America, Europe and Asia Pacific Africa also reported full year pre-tax operating profits for 2010.
 
2
 
 
As a result of Fords 2010 financial performance, the company will pay profit sharing to approximately 40,600 eligible U.S. hourly employees. The average amount is expected to be approximately $5,000 per eligible full-time employee.
 
Fords fourth quarter worldwide revenue was $32.5 billion, an increase of $1.6 billion compared with the same period a year ago, excluding Volvo from 2009. Ford reported full year revenue of $120.9 billion, an increase of $17 billion from a year ago, excluding Volvo from 2009.
Ford generated positive Automotive operating-related cash flow of $1 billion in the fourth quarter and $4.4 billion in the full year, an improvement of $5.2 billion from full year 2009.
Ford finished the year with Automotive gross cash of $20.5 billion and total Automotive debt of $19.1 billion. Automotive gross cash was down $3.3 billion from the end of the third quarter as a result of significant debt reduction actions. As of Dec. 31, 2010, total Automotive liquidity was $27.9 billion, including available credit lines.
The progress that we made improving our core Automotive business has allowed us to strengthen significantly the balance sheet in 2010, and this will remain a key area of focus for us in 2011, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. We continue to manage the business for long term profitable growth.
 
 
3
 
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2010 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
 
 
 
Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit in the fourth quarter was $741 million, a decrease of $173 million from a year ago. The decrease is more than explained by higher structural and commodity costs, aligned with guidance, as well as unfavorable volume and mix. This was offset partially by favorable net pricing. The higher structural costs, which include manufacturing, engineering, and advertising costs, largely supported product launches and growth of product plans.
Full year pre-tax operating profit was $5.3 billion, an improvement of $7.2 billion compared with a year ago, led by strong performance in North America. Each of the Automotive segments was profitable and also improved compared with a year ago.
Total vehicle wholesales in the fourth quarter were 1.4 million units, up 41,000 units from a year ago, excluding Volvo from 2009. The increase was explained primarily by higher wholesales in Asia Pacific Africa, offset partially by lower wholesales in Europe. Full year total vehicle wholesales were 5.3 million units, up 771,000 units, excluding Volvo from 2009.
 
4
 
 
Total Automotive revenue in the fourth quarter was $30.3 billion, up $2.2 billion from a year ago, excluding Volvo from 2009. Full year total Automotive revenue was $111.2 billion, up $19.7 billion from a year ago, excluding Volvo from 2009.
In the fourth quarter, North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $670 million, compared with a profit of $611 million a year ago. The increase reflects favorable net pricing, higher industry volume, favorable mix, market share improvements, and favorable exchange. These were offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior-year stock increases, higher structural costs to support product launches and growth, higher commodity costs and costs associated with the recently announced Windstar field service actions. Fourth quarter revenue was $17.2 billion, up from $15.6 billion a year ago.
North America:
For the full year, North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $5.4 billion, compared with a loss of $639 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflects favorable volume and mix, net pricing, and exchange, offset partially by higher structural costs to support higher volume and product launches.
In the fourth quarter, South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $281 million, compared with a profit of $369 million a year ago. The decrease was more than explained by higher commodity and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing. Fourth quarter revenue was $2.8 billion, up from $2.6 billion a year ago.
South America:
For the full year, South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1 billion, compared with a profit of $765 million a year ago. The increase was more than explained by favorable net pricing, exchange, and mix, offset partially by higher commodity and structural costs.
In the fourth quarter, Europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $51 million, compared with a profit of $253 million a year ago. The decline was more than explained by lower market share, higher structural costs to support product launches, higher commodity costs, and lower industry volume, offset partially by favorable exchange and mix. The lower market share primarily reflects Fords decision to reduce participation selectively in low-margin business, as well as the end of the favorable effect of scrappage programs on its small car sales. Fourth quarter revenue was $8.1 billion, down from $8.2 billion a year ago.
Europe:
Compared to Ford's most recent guidance for Europe, the fourth quarter result was lower than expected, reflecting primarily lower market share driven by actions to maintain margins.
 
 
5
 
 
For the full year, Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $182 million, compared with a loss of $144 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflects the non-recurrence of prior-year stock reductions, lower material and warranty costs, higher parts and services profits, and favorable mix.  This was offset partially by lower market share and higher structural costs.
In the fourth quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $23 million, compared with a profit of $16 million a year ago. The increase is more than explained by higher volume, offset partially by unfavorable mix. Fourth quarter revenue, which excludes sales at unconsolidated China joint ventures, was $2.2 billion, up from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Asia Pacific Africa:
For the full year, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of $189 million, compared with a loss of $86 million a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflects higher volume, and lower material, freight and warranty costs, offset partially by higher structural costs to support investment in Fords product and growth plans, and unfavorable mix.
The fourth quarter Other Automotive loss was $182 million, compared with a loss of $295 million a year ago.  This improvement primarily reflects favorable fair market value adjustments related primarily to our investment in Mazda and lower net interest expense.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
 
For the fourth quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $552 million, a decline of $149 million compared with a year ago.
In the fourth quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $572 million, compared with a profit of $714 million a year ago. The decrease reflects lower volume and the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense related to lower gains as fewer leases terminated and the vehicles were sold.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
For the full year, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $3.1 billion, compared with a profit of $2 billion a year ago.  The increase reflects primarily a lower provision for credit losses and lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles related to higher auction values.  These were offset partially by lower volume and the non-recurrence of net gains related to unhedged currency exposure from intercompany lending.
 
6
 
 
OUTLOOK 2011
 
Ford remains focused on delivering the key aspects of the One Ford plan, which are unchanged:
 
Overall, 2010 marked a pivotal year as Ford launched 24 new or redesigned vehicles in key markets around the world, including the redesigned Explorer, the new Fiesta, as well as the redesigned Edge and Lincoln MKX in North America, the redesigned C-MAX and new Grand C-MAX in Europe, and the new Figo in India. The company also announced more than $9 billion in global investments for future growth, including: $4.5 billion in North and South America; $2.9 billion in Europe; and $1.7 billion in Asia Pacific Africa.
The One Ford transformation continues in 2011 as Ford launches the new global Focus in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific Africa, as well as the Focus Electric in North America later in the year. The new global Ranger will hit markets in Asia Pacific Africa and Europe this year, and the company will continue to expand the EcoBoost family of engines by offering it in additional markets and vehicles.
Ford plans to build on its performance in 2010 with continued improvement in 2011 total company pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow. On a full year basis, Ford expects each of its Automotive operations to be profitable in 2011. In addition, the Automotive operating margin in 2011 is expected to be equal to or improved from 2010.
Ford also expects solid profitability for Ford Credit in 2011, although at a lower level than 2010, reflecting primarily the non-recurrence of lease depreciation expenses and credit loss reserve reductions of the same magnitude as 2010. At year-end 2011, Ford Credit anticipates that managed receivables will be in the range of $80 billion to $85 billion.  Ford Credit is projecting distributions of about $2 billion during 2011.
Ford expects U.S. full year industry volume will be in the range of 13 million to 13.5 million units and, for the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe in the range of 14.5 million to 15.5 million units, including medium and heavy trucks.
The company expects its full year U.S. total market share and its share of the U.S. retail market as well as European market share to be equal to or improved from 2010.
 
7
 
 
Full year Automotive structural costs are expected to be higher, as the company increases production to meet demand and makes further investments in new products, technology and growth. Commodity costs also are expected to be higher this year, reflecting increased global demand.
Ford expects capital expenditures in the range of $5 billion to $5.5 billion, as the company continues to invest in its product and growth plans.
We expect continued improvement in 2011, driven primarily by our growing product strength, a gradually strengthening global economy and an unrelenting focus on improving the competitiveness of all of our operations, said Mulally. We are delivering on our commitments to serve our global customers with a best-in-class full family of Ford products and delivering profitable growth for all associated with Ford.
 
 
8
 
 
Fords 2010 and 2011 planning assumptions and key metrics include the following:
 
 
 
Fords production volumes are shown below:
 
 
 
9
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary fourth quarter 2010 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today. The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at . Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
10
 
 
ABOUT FORD MOTOR COMPANY
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 164,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 
 
11
 
Statements included herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
 
We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2009 Form 10-K Report.
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
Our current low effective tax rate is primarily the result of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. Sustained
levels of profitability are expected to lead to reversal of the majority of our valuation allowance, which could occur as early
as the Second Half of 2011. This would lead to a more normalized annual effective tax rate for Full Year 2011 (approaching
the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% for the year) for the purpose of determining operating earnings per share. Reversal of the
valuation allowance will not affect our cash tax payments, which should remain low for a number of years.
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18


