FILE:F/F-8K-20111026083350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
- 2 -
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated October 26, 2011, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on October 26, 2011 to review preliminary third quarter 2011 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth, will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8620 (or 1-617-399-5139 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
 
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss, and Ford Motor Credit Company Chief Financial Officer Mike Seneski will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8612 (or 1-617-399-5131 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors also may access replays of the presentations beginning after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Wednesday, November 2, 2011 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 50835972; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 79131521.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
- 3 -
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
FORD EARNS $1.6 BILLION NET INCOME IN THIRD QUARTER 2011;
CONTINUES BUILDING FOUNDATION FOR GLOBAL GROWTH
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 26, 2011  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported third quarter 2011 net income of $1.6 billion, or 41 cents per share, a decrease of $38 million, or 2 cents per share, versus third quarter 2010.  During the quarter, Ford continued to generate solid profits, strengthen its balance sheet, invest for future growth, as well as take actions to improve its competitiveness.
We delivered solid results for the third quarter despite an uncertain business environment by continuing to serve our customers around the world with best-in-class vehicles, said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO. We accomplished this while continuing to invest for future growth and focusing on developing outstanding products with segment-leading quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value.
 
Third quarter 2011 pre-tax operating profit was $1.9 billion, or 46 cents per share, a decrease of $111 million, or 2 cents per share, from third quarter 2010. Improved total Automotive results were more than offset by anticipated reductions in Financial Services.
Within Automotive results, pre-tax operating profit was reduced by about $350 million for unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity hedges for future periods. These adjustments occurred because of the significant decline in commodity prices near the end of September. This is a non-cash charge that will either reverse should commodity prices increase or be offset by the benefit of lower commodity prices in the future.
For the first nine months, Ford earned a pre-tax operating profit of $7.7 billion, net income of $6.6 billion and reported Automotive operating-related cash flow of $4.9 billion. Ford continued to grow volume and revenue during the period.
Fords third quarter net income was affected by unfavorable special items of $98 million. The special items include personnel reduction actions, Mercury and other dealer-related actions in North America.
Third quarter Ford Credit pre-tax operating profit was $581 million, a decrease of $185 million from third quarter 2010, consistent with previous guidance.
Third quarter total Automotive pre-tax profit was $1.3 billion, an increase of $45 million from the same period a year ago. North America and South America reported pre-tax profits for the third quarter, while Europe and Asia Pacific and Africa posted a loss for the period.
Fords third quarter revenue was $33.1 billion, an increase of $4.1 billion from third quarter 2010. Ford generated positive Automotive operating-related cash flow of $400 million in the third quarter.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Ford also continued to strengthen its balance sheet, with a net reduction in Automotive debt of $1.3 billion in the third quarter. This included payment of the remaining $1.8 billion balance of secured Term Loan debt, which was offset partially by an increase in low-cost loans to support advanced technology. Ford ended the third quarter with $20.8 billion of Automotive gross cash, a decrease of $1.2 billion compared to June 30, 2011. Automotive gross cash exceeded debt by $8.1 billion, an improvement of $10.7 billion from a year ago. Fords Automotive liquidity totaled $31 billion.
We remain well on track to deliver improved full year pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow, consistent with our guidance, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. Our liquidity remains strong, and we will continue to take actions when appropriate to strengthen our balance sheet.
THIRD QUARTER 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
 
Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit in the third quarter was $1.3 billion, an increase of $45 million from third quarter 2010. The increase is explained by higher net pricing in each of our Automotive operations, lower net interest expense, and favorable volume and mix in North and South America. This was offset partially by higher contribution costs  which include material costs, warranty expense, as well as freight and duty costs.
About two-thirds of the contribution cost increase is due to commodities. As previously noted, in addition to higher commodity costs, the company recognized unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments on commodity hedges of about $350 million driven by a sharp decline in commodity prices mainly in the latter part of September. Ford uses hedging to provide cash flow protection against volatility in commodity prices. Mark-to-market refers to the accounting practice of reflecting commodity hedges at their current market value. As commodity prices go up, the market value of Fords commodity hedges increases; as commodity prices go down, the market value of Fords hedges decreases. These changes in the market value of the companys commodity hedges do not have an immediate cash impact, although the change in value is reflected in its current earnings.
Total vehicle wholesales in the third quarter were 1.3 million units, up 93,000 units from third quarter 2010, as every business segment reported higher wholesales.
Total Automotive revenue in the third quarter was $31.1 billion, up $4.4 billion from third quarter 2010.
In the third quarter, North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.6 billion, essentially unchanged from a year ago. Higher net pricing and favorable volume and mix were more than offset by higher contribution costs. These costs included higher commodity costs and hedging adjustments, and higher material costs excluding commodities mainly associated with our new products. Wholesales in the third quarter were 642,000 units, up 50,000 units from a year ago. Revenue in the third quarter was $18 billion, up $1.8 billion from a year ago.
North America:
In the third quarter, South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $276 million, compared with a profit of $241 million a year ago. The increase primarily reflects favorable net pricing, volume and mix, and other profits, offset partially by higher structural costs, driven by local inflation, and higher commodity costs. Wholesales in the third quarter were 133,000 units, up 17,000 units. Revenue in the third quarter was $3 billion, up $500 million from a year ago.
South America:
 
 
4
 
 
In the third quarter, Europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $306 million, compared with a loss of $196 million a year ago. The decrease is explained by higher commodity costs, including hedging adjustments, as well as unfavorable exchange, partially offset by improved structural costs. Wholesales in the third quarter were 357,000 units, up 17,000 units. Revenue in the third quarter was $7.8 billion, up $1.6 billion from a year ago.
Europe:
In the third quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating loss of
Asia Pacific Africa:
$43 million, compared with a profit of $30 million a year ago. The decline reflects higher costs, unfavorable volume and mix, mainly mix, and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by higher net pricing. Wholesales in the third quarter were 214,000 units, up 9,000 units. Revenue in the third quarter, which excludes sales at unconsolidated China joint ventures, was $2.3 billion, up $500 million from a year ago.
In the third quarter, Ford reported a loss of $138 million, an improvement of $231 million from a year ago. The improvement is more than explained by lower net interest expense.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the third quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $605 million, a decrease of $156 million compared with third quarter 2010.
 
In the third quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $581 million, a decrease of $185 million compared with the third quarter of 2010. The decrease in pre-tax earnings is more than explained by fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
 
 
 
5
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
Ford remains focused on delivering the key aspects of the One Ford plan, which are unchanged:
 
In the first nine months of 2011, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales was 12.8 million in the U.S. and 15.3 million in the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe. Based on the latest outlook for industry volumes, Ford now forecasts the U.S. full year industry volume at 13 million units, compared with a range of 13 million to 13.5 million units previously. For the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe, Ford now forecasts the industry volume at 15.2 million units, compared with a previous range of 14.8 million to 15.3 million units.
As reported with first and second quarter results, quality remains mixed due to some near-term issues in North America, which Ford is addressing. The company also said it is on track to achieve quality improvements in its international operations.
The company expects its full year U.S. total market share, its U.S. retail share of the retail market and European market share to be equal to or improved from 2010. In the first nine months, Fords U.S. total market share was 16.5 percent, its U.S. retail share of the retail market was 13.9 percent and European market share was 8.3 percent.
Ford said its third quarter and first nine-month performance was solid, and the company remains well on track to deliver continued improvement for full year pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow compared with 2010. In 2010, the company reported a full year pre-tax operating profit of $8.3 billion and Automotive operating-related cash flow of $4.4 billion.
Based on the companys most recent assessment, Ford expects its structural costs to be about $1.6 billion higher than 2010. As a result of the recent hedging adjustments, Ford expects commodity costs to be about $2.2 billion higher than 2010. Ford now expects its full year Automotive operating margin will be about 5.7 percent, compared to the 6.1 percent Ford achieved in 2010. This is due primarily to the impact of commodity hedging adjustments. Automotive operating margin through the first nine months of 2011 was 6.5 percent.
Ford expects 2011 capital expenditures to be about $4.6 billion, as the company realizes efficiencies from its global product development processes. The company remains on track with its product plans. Capital spending in the first nine months was $3.1 billion.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Ford expects total company fourth quarter production to be about 1.4 million units, up 22,000 units from a year ago. Fourth quarter production in Asia Pacific Africa is being affected by flooding in Thailand. Although the companys joint venture Auto Alliance Thailand assembly plant is not affected, the flood is causing parts shortages that have forced it to suspend production. Ford is working closely with its affected suppliers to return to production as quickly as possible and to minimize any potential impact in other regions. This forecast reflects the companys best projection at this time. Should the outlook change materially, the company will update its forecast accordingly.
We are making consistent progress on our commitment to deliver profitable growth for all, said Mulally. Going forward, we are focused on aggressively managing short-term challenges and opportunities and we remain committed to delivering our mid-decade plan and serving a growing group of Ford customers around the world.
Fords planning assumptions and key metrics, and production volumes, are shown below:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
 
Ford cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Ford's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of initial issuance, and Ford does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A . Risk Factors" of Ford's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
9
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary third quarter 2011 financial results at 7 a.m. EDT today. The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
About Ford Motor Company
 
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 


