FILE:F/F-8K-20110908095838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On September 7, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. William W. Helman to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.  He will serve on the Board of Directors' Finance Committee, Sustainability Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Company's press release announcing the election is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Ford Names William Helman to Board of Directors
 Ford Motor Company announced today the election of William W. Helman IV to the companys Board of Directors, effective immediately.
DEARBORN
,
Mich., Sept. 7, 2011
Helman, 53, is a partner with Greylock Partners, where he has served since 1984. In his role at Greylock, Helman focuses on enterprise software, consumer internet, healthcare and biotechnology.
Bills strong entrepreneurial spirit and more than 25 years of experience as a venture capitalist has helped him develop a keen understanding of what it takes for companies to innovate and grow, said Ford Executive Chairman Bill Ford. We are fortunate to further strengthen our board of directors with someone of Bills experience and we 
look forward to the contributions he will make to our companys future success.
Helman will serve on the Ford Board of Directors Finance Committee, Sustainability Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee.
Helman also serves as lead director at Zipcar, Inc., as well as on the Board of Trustees of Dartmouth College and Harvard Management Company. In addition, he is on the Board of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, The Steppingstone Foundation, The Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, the Broad Institute, and a member of the Harvard Medical School Board of Fellows.
He is a graduate of Dartmouth College and the Harvard Business School.
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 


