FILE:F/F-8K-20110426073857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated April 26, 2011, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on April 26, 2011 to review preliminary first quarter 2011 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-953-6858 (or 1-617-399-3482 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks, Ford Assistant Treasurer David Brandi, and Ford Motor Credit Company Chief Financial Officer Mike Seneski will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8616 (or 1-617-399-5135 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors also may access replays of the presentations beginning after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Tuesday, May 3, 2011 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 24818643; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 29314028.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
FORD REPORTS $2.6 BILLION 2011 FIRST QUARTER NET INCOME AS ONE FORD PLAN CONTINUES STRONG PROGRESS
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEARBORN, Mich., April 26, 2011  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported first quarter 2011 net income of $2.6 billion, or 61 cents per share, an increase of $466 million, or 11 cents per share, from first quarter 2010 as fuel-efficient new products, continued investment in global growth and the strengthening of Fords core business boosted results
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our team delivered a great quarter, with solid growth and improvements in all regions, said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO.  We continue to accelerate our One Ford plan around the world, delivering on our commitments to serve our global customers with a full family of best-in-class vehicles and deliver profitable growth for all, despite uncertain economic conditions.
First quarter 2011 pre-tax operating profit was $2.8 billion, or 62 cents per share, an increase of $827 million, or 16 cents per share, from first quarter 2010. This increase reflects improved profits in each Automotive segment led by a strong performance in North America and solid improvement in Europe
,
.
First quarter Automotive pre-tax operating profit was $2.1 billion, an increase of $936 million from first quarter 2010.  Ford's Automotive business is benefiting from growth in both volume and per-unit net revenue.  This revenue growth, along with scale benefits from increasing volume, are driving improvements in profitability and operating margin  despite higher commodity costs and planned cost increases associated with the investments Ford is making in its products, brand and future growth.  The profitability improvement also reflects Ford's stronger balance sheet through lower net interest expense.
First quarter Ford Credit pre-tax operating profit was $713 million, a decrease of $115million from first quarter 2010, consistent with previous guidance.
 
North America posted a first quarter pre-tax operating profit of $1.8 billion, a $591 million increase from first quarter 2010. Europe reported a first quarter pre-tax operating profit of $293 million, an increase of $186 million from first quarter 2010. South America and Asia Pacific Africa also posted increased pre-tax operating profits.
Fords first quarter revenue was $33.1 billion, an increase of $5 billion from first quarter 2010.
Ford generated positive Automotive operating-related cash flow of $2.2 billion in the first quarter, an improvement of $2.3 billion from first quarter 2010.
Ford also made significant progress in strengthening its balance sheet, with a net reduction in Automotive debt of $2.5 billion in the first quarter, including the redemption of all outstanding Trust Preferred Securities Ford ended the first quarter with $21.3 billion of Automotive gross cash, an increase of $800 million compared to Dec. 31, 2010. Automotive gross cash exceeded debt by $4.7 billion, an improvement of $3.3 billion from year end 2010.
.
 
2
 
 
Ford took action to increase overall liquidity, including an additional $1.7 billion of capacity on its secured revolving credit facility, reflecting Fords improved credit profile and overall credit conditions. Fords Automotive liquidity totaled $30.7 billion, an increase of $2.8 billion from year end 2010.
Our business is improving as we achieve growth in volume and revenue, while maintaining our focus on increasing competitiveness, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. The quarter was another encouraging step as we invest for an even stronger business for the future.
FIRST QUARTER 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
3
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
 
Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit in the first quarter was $2.1 billion, an increase of $936 million from first quarter 2010. The increase is explained by favorable volume and mix and favorable net pricing, that more than offset higher contribution costs  which include material costs, warranty expense and freight and duty costs. The higher contribution costs were driven by higher commodity costs and material excluding commodities -- primarily added content, technology and features for Fords new products. Other costs, primarily structural, increased, reflecting the impact of new product launches, investment in future growth, and higher volumes.
Total vehicle wholesales in the first quarter were 1.4 million units, up 150,000 units from first quarter 2010, as every business segment reported higher wholesales.
Total Automotive revenue in the first quarter was $31 billion, up $5.6 billion from first quarter 2010.
In the first quarter, North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.8 billion, compared with a profit of $1.2 billion a year ago. The increase reflects favorable volume and mix and favorable net pricing. These were offset partially by higher contribution costs, primarily material costs to support new products, as well as increases for commodities, warranty, and freight and duty. Other costs, primarily structural, to support higher volumes and new product launches, also increased. Revenue in the first quarter was $17.9 billion, up $3.8 billion from a year ago.
North America:
In the first quarter, South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $210 million, compared with a profit of $203 million a year ago. The increase reflects favorable net pricing and volume and mix, offset largely by higher costs and unfavorable exchange. Revenue in the first quarter was $2.3 billion, up $300 million from a year ago.
South America:
In the first quarter, Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $293 million, compared with a profit of $107 million a year ago. The increase was more than explained by favorable net pricing, favorable volume and mix, favorable exchange and higher subsidiary profits. Revenue in the first quarter was $8.7 billion, up $1 billion from a year ago.
Europe:
 
 
 
4
 
 
In the first quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of
Asia Pacific Africa:
$33 million, compared with a profit of $23 million a year ago. The increase is more than explained by lower contribution costs. Revenue in the first quarter, which excludes sales at unconsolidated China joint ventures, was $2.1 billion, up $500 million from a year ago.
The first quarter Other Automotive loss was $249 million, compared with a loss of $391 million in first quarter 2010.  This improvement primarily reflects lower net interest expense, offset partially by unfavorable changes in fair market value adjustments related primarily to Fords investment in Mazda.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the first quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $706 million, a decrease of $109 million compared with first quarter 2010.
In the first quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax operating profit of $713 million, compared with a profit of $828 million in first quarter 2010. The decrease is more than explained by lower market valuation adjustments to derivatives and lower receivables volume.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
OUTLOOK
 
Ford remains focused on delivering the key aspects of the One Ford plan, which are unchanged:
 
The One Ford transformation continues in 2011 as Ford launches key products in critical markets, while maintaining a sharp focus on critical business issues, including cost competitiveness, fuel efficiency, investment in emerging markets, and continued improvement in brand health and pricing discipline.
Ford said its performance is off to a great start. Ford is on track to deliver continued improvement in full year pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow compared to 2010. Based on lower expected profit at Ford Credit, increasing commodity costs, seasonal factors that tend to favor the first half of the year and higher investments and costs related to its longer-term growth and brand plans, quarterly results in the latter part of the year may not be as strong as the first quarter. As the year progresses, Ford said it will take advantage of every opportunity to further strengthen its business.
 
 
 
5
 
 
Ford expects solid profitability for Ford Credit in 2011, although at a lower level than 2010, reflecting primarily the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense and credit loss reserve reductions of the same magnitude as 2010. Ford estimates the profit impact of these two items will reduce profit by about $1.1 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. Ford Credit is projecting distributions of about $3 billion during 2011.
Ford expects U.S. full year industry volume will be in the range of 13 million to 13.5 million units and, for the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe in the range of 14.5 million to 15.5 million units, including medium and heavy trucks.
In the first quarter, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales was 13.4 million in the U.S., and 15.9 million units for the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe. Despite encouraging first quarter industry levels, Ford is maintaining its present guidance for North America and Europe.
The company expects its full year U.S. total market share and its share of the U.S. retail market as well as European market share to be equal to or improved from 2010. In the first quarter, Fords U.S. market share was 16 percent, and European market share was 8.5 percent.
In North America, Ford has increased its J.D. Power dependability ranking; however, the company is addressing some near-term issues, leading to a mixed overall quality outlook for the year.
Ford remains on track to achieve quality improvements in its international operations.
Commodity costs and structural costs each are expected to increase by about $2 billion compared with 2010. The latter is consistent with supporting higher volumes in the short term, as well as Fords plan to grow its business, continue to strengthen its brand and improve its products. In the first quarter, Fords structural costs increased $400 million compared to first quarter 2010, and commodity costs increased by $300 million.
Ford expects 2011 capital expenditures in the range of $5 billion to $5.5 billion. Capital spending in the first quarter was $900 million.
Ford expects total company second quarter production to be about 1.5 million units, up 12,000 units from a year ago, reflecting continued strong customer demand for its products. The forecast reflects Fords best projection, at this time, of the impact of the events in Japan. As always, Fords production plans remain consistent with its strategy to match supply to demand.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Our progress toward delivering profitable growth for all will continue as we aggressively manage short term challenges and opportunities said Mulally. We expect our annual volumes to continue to grow substantially, driven primarily by our growing product strength, a gradually strengthening global economy and an unrelenting focus on improving the competitiveness of all of our operations.
,
Fords planning assumptions and key metrics, and production volumes, are shown below:
 
 
 
For news releases, related materials and high-resolution photos and video, visit .
www.media.ford.com
Follow at
www.facebook.com/ford
,
www.twitter.com/ford
or
www.youtube.com/fordvideo1
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
Ford cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Ford's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of initial issuance, and Ford does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A . Risk Factors" of Ford's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
9
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary first quarter 2011 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


