FILE:F/F-8K-20110726072141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated July 26, 2011, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Ford will conduct two conference calls on July 26, 2011 to review preliminary second quarter 2011 financial results.  Beginning at 9:00 a.m., Ford's President and Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth will host a presentation for the investment community and news media.  Investors may access this presentation by dialing 877-415-3184 (or 1-857-244-7327 from outside the United States).  The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Earnings."
At 11:00 a.m., Ford Vice President and Controller Bob Shanks,
Ford Vice President and Treasurer Neil Schloss
, and Ford Motor Credit Company Chief Financial
Officer Mike Seneski will host a presentation for fixed income analysts and investors. Investors may access this presentation by dialing 866-318-8612 (or 1-617-399-5131 from outside the United States). The passcode for either telephone number is a verbal response of "Ford Fixed Income."
A listen-only webcast and supporting presentation materials for these calls is available on the Internet at .  Investors also may access replays of the presentations beginning after 2:00 p.m. the day of the event through Tuesday, August 2, 2011 by dialing 888-286-8010 (or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the United States).  The passcode for replays of the earnings call is 51847137; the passcode for replays of the fixed income call is 38855937.  All times referenced above are in Eastern Time.
www.shareholder.ford.com
Please note that Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K discusses various financial measures "excluding special items" and/or with other adjustments.  The most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") are these same measures including special items and/or without adjustments.  We believe that showing these measures on a basis that excludes special items and/or includes other adjustments is useful to investors, because it allows investors to evaluate our results excluding or adjusting for items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, as well as items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities.
In addition, Exhibit 99 discusses our key cash metrics, Automotive operating-related cash flow (which we believe best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), and Automotive gross cash (including cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities).  We believe that Automotive operating-related cash flow is useful to investors because it includes elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending), and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure is on our statement of cash flows.  The most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for Automotive gross cash is the sum of the individual line items on our balance sheet for each of the elements within that measure ( and).
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
 
 
- 3 -
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 4 -
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORD EARNS $2.4 BILLION NET INCOME IN SECOND QUARTER 2011;
STRENGTHENS FOUNDATION FOR CONTINUED GLOBAL GROWTH
+
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See end notes on page 8.
 
DEARBORN, Mich., July 26, 2011  Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported second quarter 2011 net income of $2.4 billion, or 59 cents per share, a decrease of $201 million, or 2 cents per share, from second quarter 2010. The period was marked by continued Automotive growth, solid profitability and strong cash flow, and a continued focus on strengthening the balance sheet and investing for the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
We delivered very good second quarter results while growing the business globally and serving more customers in every region, said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO. Despite an uncertain business environment, we further strengthened our balance sheet and continued to invest for the future.
 
Second quarter pre-tax operating profit was $2.9 billion, or 65 cents per share, a decrease of $64 million, or 3 cents per share, from second quarter 2010. Total Automotive results improved, offset by an anticipated reduction in Financial Services results.
For the first half of 2011, Ford earned a pre-tax operating profit of $5.7 billion, net income of $4.9 billion and reported Automotive operating-related cash flow of $4.5 billion. Ford continued to grow volume and revenue during the period.
Fords second quarter net income was affected by unfavorable special items of $272 million, $177 million more than a year ago. The special items include personnel reduction actions, Mercury and other dealer-related actions in North America, and pension settlements in Belgium.
Second quarter Automotive pre-tax operating profit was $2.3 billion, an increase of $209 million from second quarter 2010. Second quarter Ford Credit pre-tax operating profit was $604 million, a decrease of $284 million from second quarter 2010.
North America posted a second quarter pre-tax operating profit of $1.9 billion. South America, Europe and Asia Pacific Africa also were profitable.
Fords second quarter revenue was $35.5 billion, an increase of $4.2 billion from second quarter 2010. Ford generated positive Automotive operating-related cash flow of $2.3 billion in the second quarter.
Ford continued its focus on strengthening its balance sheet, with a net reduction in Automotive debt of $2.6 billion in the second quarter. The net reduction includes $2.3 billion of payments on its term loans and full repayment of the outstanding balance of $800 million on its revolving credit line. These actions were offset partially by an increase in low-cost loans to support advanced technology.
 
 
Ford ended the second quarter with $22 billion of Automotive gross cash, an increase of $700 million compared to March 31, 2011. Automotive gross cash exceeded debt by $8 billion, leading to a first-half improvement of $6.6 billion compared with the end of 2010.
Fords Automotive liquidity totaled $32.2 billion, an increase of $4.3 billion in the first half.
 
 
 
2
 
 
We are on track for solid results in 2011, including delivering on our guidance for improved full-year
pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow compared with last year, said Lewis Booth, Ford executive vice president and chief financial officer. Going forward, we will continue building on this solid foundation for future investment and growth.
SECOND QUARTER 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
3
 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
 
*  Excludes special items
 
Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit in the second quarter was $2.3 billion, an increase of $209 million from second quarter 2010.  The improvement was driven by higher net pricing at each of the Automotive operations, favorable volume and mix in North America, and lower net interest expense.  Net interest expense improved due primarily to debt repayments made since the beginning of second quarter 2010.
Total vehicle wholesales in the second quarter were 1.5 million units, up 101,000 units from second quarter 2010, as every business segment reported higher wholesales. Total Automotive revenue in the second quarter was $33.5 billion, up $4.7 billion from second quarter 2010.
In the second quarter, North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $1.9 billion, an increase of $10 million from a year ago. This reflects significant improvement in net pricing, driven by the strength of its products, and favorable volume and mix. These were offset by higher costs, including increases for new products, commodities, and structural costs. Wholesales in the second quarter were 736,000 units, up 77,000 units from a year ago.  Revenue was $19.5 billion, up $2.6 billion from second quarter 2010.
North America:
In the second quarter, South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $267 million, a decrease of $18 million from a year ago.This represents South Americas 30th consecutive quarterly pre-tax operating profit. Net pricing was higher but was more than offset by higher commodities cost and increased structural costs due to local inflation. Wholesales in the second quarter were 135,000 units, up from a year ago.  Revenue was $2.9 billion, up $300 million from second quarter 2010.
South America:
 
In the second quarter, Europe reported a pre-tax operating profit of $176 million, a decrease of $146 million from a year ago. The decrease was more than explained by higher commodities and structural costs.  Adverse change in dealer stocks also was a contributing factor, reflecting actions to replenish dealer stocks in second quarter 2010 following the end of scrappage programs, compared to dealer stock declines in second quarter 2011. Wholesales in the second quarter were 422,000 units, about the same as a year ago. Revenue was $9 billion, up $1.5 billion from second quarter 2010.
Europe:
In the second quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating profit of
Asia Pacific Africa:
$1 million, a decrease of $112 million from a year ago. The lower profit primarily reflects higher costs, which include investments Ford is making to grow across the markets in the region, as well as unfavorable product-line and market mix.  Wholesales in the second quarter were 226,000 units, up 17,000 units from a year ago. Revenue, which excludes sales at unconsolidated China joint ventures, was $2.1 billion, up $300 million from second quarter 2010.
 
 
 
4
 
 
In the second quarter, Ford reported a loss in Other Automotive of $76 million, an improvement of $475 million from a year ago.  The improvement primarily reflects lower net interest expense from significant debt reduction actions. For the first half, Fords net interest expense was about $700 million lower than the same period last year.
Other Automotive:
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
 
For the second quarter, the Financial Services sector reported a pre-tax operating profit of $602 million, a decrease of $273 million compared with second quarter 2010.
Second quarter Ford Credit pre-tax operating profit was $604 million, a decrease of $284 million from second quarter 2010. In line with our expectations, the results reflect primarily  lower credit loss reserve reductions and the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense of the same magnitude as 2010.
Ford Motor Credit Company:
OUTLOOK
 
Ford remains focused on delivering its One Ford plan, which is unchanged:
 
In the first half of 2011, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales was 12.8 million in the U.S. and 15.4 million units for the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe.
Ford is maintaining its U.S. full year industry volume outlook in the range of 13 million to 13.5 million units. For the 19 markets Ford tracks in Europe, after a strong first half, Ford sees some sign of weakness related to the debt crisis and fiscal austerity programs. Ford now forecasts the industry in Europe to be in a range of 14.8 million to 15.3 million units, compared with 14.5 million to 15.5 million units previously.
 
 
 
5
 
 
As reported with first quarter results, quality remains mixed due to some near-term issues in North America, which Ford is addressing. Ford said it is pleased with progress made to date on those issues.
The company also said it is on track to achieve quality improvements in its international operations.
The company expects its full year U.S. total market share, its U.S. retail share of the retail market and European market share to be equal to or improved from 2010. In the first half, Fords U.S. total market share was 16.7 percent, its U.S. retail share of the retail market was 13.9 percent and European market share was 8.4 percent.
Ford said its second quarter and first half performance were very good, and the company remains on track to deliver continued improvement for full year pre-tax operating profit and Automotive operating-related cash flow compared with 2010. In 2010, the company reported a full-year pre-tax operating profit of $8.3 billion and Automotive operating-related cash flow of $4.4 billion.
Ford said it continues to expect second half results will be lower than first half.  In the Automotive sector, this reflects increasing commodities and structural costs, as well as seasonal factors that tend to favor the first half.  At Ford Credit, lower profit in the second half primarily reflects the same factors affecting first half results.
Ford continues to expect commodities and structural costs to each increase by about $2 billion compared with 2010.  The increase in structural costs is consistent with supporting higher volumes in the short term, as well as the companys plan to grow the business, strengthen its brand and improve its products through the business planning period.  Ford said it expects its structural costs as a percent of net revenue to improve compared with 2010.
Based on first half performance and expectations for the full year, Ford continues to expect Automotive operating margin to be equal to or improved compared with 6.1 percent in 2010, despite higher commodities cost. In the first half, Automotive operating margin, at 7.3 percent, was down half a point compared with the same period a year ago.
Ford expects 2011 capital expenditures in the range of $5 billion to $5.5 billion. Capital spending in the first half was $2 billion.
Ford expects total company third quarter production to be about 1.4 million units, up 92,000 units from a year ago, reflecting continued strong customer demand for its products.
 
 
 
6
 
 
We are making consistent progress on our commitment to deliver profitable growth for all, said Mulally. Going forward, we remain focused on aggressively managing short term challenges and opportunities and strengthening the foundation to deliver our mid-decade plan and serve a growing group of Ford customers around the world. 
Fords planning assumptions and key metrics, and production volumes, are shown below:
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
Statements included herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:
Ford cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Ford's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of initial issuance, and Ford does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A . Risk Factors" of Ford's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
9
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
 
Ford Motor Company [NYSE:F] releases its preliminary second quarter 2011 financial results at 7 a.m. EST today.  The following briefings will be conducted after the announcement:
 
Listen-only presentations and supporting materials will be available on the Internet at .  Representatives of the news media and the investment community participating by teleconference will have the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
www.shareholder.ford.com
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
www.ford.com
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
Our current low effective tax rate is primarily the result of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. Sustained levels of profitability are
expected to lead to reversal of the majority of our valuation allowance, which could occur as early as the Fourth Quarter of 2011.  This would lead to a
more normalized annual operating tax rate for Full Year 2011 (approaching the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% for the year) for the purpose of determining
operating earnings per share.  Reversal of the valuation allowance will not affect our cash tax payments, which should remain low for a number of years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


