FILE:F/F-8K-20110608164759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Ford Motor Company ("Ford") hereby incorporates by reference its news release dated June 8, 2011, which is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
Ford and Sollers Sign Agreement Establishing New Joint Venture In Russia
 
 
 Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] and Sollers OJSC have signed agreements to establish a 50-50-owned joint venture in Russia. The new business, named Ford Sollers, is scheduled to start operations later this year.
Moscow, June 8, 2011
Stephen Odell, chairman and CEO of Ford of Europe, and Vadim Shvetsov, general director of Sollers, signed the final agreement papers at a ceremony today held in Moscow with Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.
Ford and Sollers also signed a Letter of Intent with Vnesheconombank (VEB), the Russian development bank, for long-term financing for Ford Sollers of 39 billion Russian roubles, or approximately $1.4 billion.
The new joint venture also announced the Ford Transit medium commercial vehicle will be among several new Ford products to be built by Ford Sollers.
This is an historic day for the Ford brand in Russia, Stephen Odell said. Together with our friends and partners at Sollers, we have established the new Ford Sollers business with the clear objective of providing our customers with more Ford products and increased service in the Russian market.
Russia is set to become Europe's largest market for new vehicles by mid-decade and provides the Ford brand a huge growth opportunity. Ford Sollers will help to build the Ford brand in Russia and support profitable growth, while also strengthening the Russian automotive industry and its local supply base, said Odell.
 
 
 
We are delighted to work with Ford, and this partnership is a vital step in the development of Sollers, said Vadim Shvetsov. We are confident that our mutual efforts on the development of manufacturing facilities, new product launches and localisation of parts content will ensure success for our strategy and a leading position for the Ford Sollers joint venture company in the Russian market.
Ford Sollers operations will include the Ford manufacturing plant in Vsevolozhsk, near St. Petersburg, which currently builds the Ford Focus and Ford Mondeo, in addition to two Sollers production facilities in the Republic of Tatarstan. Together, these three plants will manufacture a range of Ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, including the Ford Transit commercial vehicle.
In 2002, Ford became the first foreign automaker to manufacture cars in Russia. Ford brings to the Ford Sollers venture its extensive manufacturing experience, a dealer network of 107 sales and service sites in 71 cities across Russia, and a strong reputation with Russian customers. In addition to the vehicles Ford Sollers will build in Russia, the joint venture will have access to the global range of Fords latest products delivered under its One Ford plan.
Sollers, Russias second-largest producer of passenger and light commercial vehicles, will support Ford Sollers through its manufacturing capabilities, knowledge of the Russian market, experience in distribution and work with the Russian supply base. This significant contribution will strengthen Ford Sollers, and will be an important contributor to its future success.
Ford Sollers will be responsible for the import and distribution of Ford brand products, parts and accessories in Russia. In addition to vehicle production, Ford Sollers will produce engines, operate a stamping facility providing a higher level of local parts content for Ford vehicles built in Russia, and establish local research and development activities.
The joint application by Ford and Sollers to the Russian government for participation in the new industrial assembly regime was approved by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade on June 1, 2011. Ford Sollers will begin formal operation later this year.
About Ford Motor Company
,a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the companys automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Fords products, please visit .
Ford Motor Company
 
www.fordmotorcompany.com
Within Ford Motor Company, is responsible for producing, selling and servicing Ford brand vehicles in 51 individual markets, and employs approximately 66,000 employees. In addition to Ford Motor Credit Company, Ford of Europe operations include Ford Customer Service Division and 22 manufacturing facilities, including joint ventures. The first Ford cars were shipped to Europe in 1903  the same year Ford Motor Company was founded. European production started in 1911.
Ford of Europe
 
2
 
For news releases, related materials and high-resolution photos and video, visit .
www.media.ford.com
Follow at
www.facebook.com/ford
,
www.twitter.com/ford
or
www.youtube.com/fordvideo1
 
About Sollers
( ) is one of Russia's leading automotive companies, engaged in the production, distribution and servicing of passenger cars and commercial vehicles under its own brands and in cooperation with international OEMs in Russia.  Sollers owns five automotive plants, engine production facility, Sollers-Finance Company, and a number of dealerships in Russia with more than 20,000 employees.  In 2010, Sollers became the second largest Russian producer of passenger and light commercial vehicles, with total sales of 98,000 units.
Sollers OJSC
www.sollers-auto.com
 
 
3
 
For news releases, related materials and high-resolution photos and video, visit .
www.media.ford.com
Follow at
www.facebook.com/ford
,
www.twitter.com/ford
or
www.youtube.com/fordvideo1


