FILE:F/F-8K-20110518133704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On May 12, 2011, our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held. The matters voted upon and the results of the vote were as follows:
Proposal One: Election of Directors.
A proposal to ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm to audit the books of account and other corporate records of the Company for 2011 was adopted with the votes shown:
Proposal Two: Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
A proposal relating to a shareholder advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Named Executives was approved with the votes shown:
Proposal Three: Relating to an Advisory Vote by Shareholders to Approve the Compensation of the Named Executives.
A proposal relating to the frequency of the shareholder advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Named Executives received a majority of the votes cast in favor of a shareholder advisory vote every 1 YEAR with the votes shown:
Proposal Four: Relating to the Frequency of the Shareholder Advisory Vote to Approve the Compensation of the Named Executives.
The Company adopts every 1 YEAR as the frequency of the shareholder advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Named Executives.
A proposal relating to the Company issuing a report disclosing political contributions was rejected with the votes shown:
Proposal Five: Relating to the Company Issuing a Report Disclosing the Company's Political Contributions.
 
A proposal relating to consideration of a recapitalization plan to provide that all of the Company's outstanding stock have one vote per share was rejected with the votes shown:
Proposal Six: Relating to Consideration of a Recapitalization Plan to Provide that All of the Company's Outstanding Stock Have One Vote Per Share.
A proposal relating to permitting holders of 10% of Ford Common Stock to call special shareholder meetings was rejected with the votes shown:
Proposal Seven: Relating to Permitting Holders of 10% of Common Stock to Call Special Shareholder Meetings.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


