FILE:GD/GD-8K-20020607171729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in registrant's certifying accountant	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in registrant's certifying accountant
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 4. Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant
     On June 4, 2002 Arthur Andersen LLP ("Arthur Andersen") informed General Dynamics Corporation that it would no longer be able to fulfill its services as our independent public accountant. As a result, on June 5, 2002, upon the recommendation of our Audit Committee, the Board of Directors appointed KPMG LLP ("KPMG") to serve as General Dynamics Corporation's independent public accountants for the current fiscal year which ends on December 31, 2002. The change in accountants is effective immediately.
     Arthur Andersen's reports on General Dynamics Corporation's consolidated financial statements for each of the past two fiscal years did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were such reports qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.
     During each of our two most recent fiscal years and through the date of this report, there were: (i) no disagreements with Arthur Andersen on any matter of accounting principle or practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure which, if not resolved to Arthur Andersen's satisfaction, would have caused them to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its report on our consolidated financial statements for such years; and (ii) there were no reportable events as defined in Item 304 (a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
     We have provided Arthur Andersen with a copy of the foregoing disclosures. Attached as Exhibit 16 is a copy of Arthur Andersen's letter, dated June 7, 2002, stating its agreement with such statements.
     During each of our two most recent fiscal years and through the date of this report, General Dynamics Corporation did not consult KPMG with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on our consolidated financial statements, or any matter or reportable event as set forth in Items 304 (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 7, 2002

 
Exhibit 16
June 7, 2002
Office of the Chief Accountant Securities and Exchange Commission 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549
Dear Sir:
We have read the first four paragraphs of item 4 included in the Form 8-K dated June 7, 2002 of General Dynamics Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are in agreement with the statements contained therein.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

 
Exhibit 99.1
GENERAL DYNAMICS
General Dynamics Appoints KPMG as Independent Accountant
The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE:GD) has named KPMG as its independent public accountant, effective immediately. Arthur Andersen LLP has informed General Dynamics that it will no longer be able to provide the scope of services in the number of locations that the company requires.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
"Arthur Andersen has been General Dynamics' independent auditor since 1952, the year our company was incorporated," said Nicholas D. Chabraja, General Dynamics chairman and CEO. "We appreciate their 50 years of service, and wish them well."
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 52,000 people worldwide and had 2001 revenues of $12 billion. The company has leading market positions in mission-critical information systems and technologies, land and amphibious combat systems, shipbuilding and marine systems, and business aviation. More information about the company can be found at www.generaldynamics.com.


