FILE:GD/GD-8K-20021203143845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
     On December 2, 2002, General Dynamics (the "company") issued a press release announcing that on December 2, 2002, the Department of Defense informed the company and The Boeing Company that it intends to deduct approximately $2.3 billion from payments due the companies for work on various military programs. This payment represents the amount DoD claims the companies owe in the A-12 aircraft case. The company will seek a stay of that collection effort through the courts. The press release is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 3, 2002

 
GENERAL DYNAMICS
General Dynamics seeks stay of DoD A-12 collection effort
Oral argument in case set for Jan. 9
On December 2, 2002, the Department of Defense informed General Dynamics (NYSE:GD) and the Boeing Company that it intends to deduct approximately $2.3 billion from payments due the companies for work on various military programs. This payment represents the amount DoD claims the companies owe in the A-12 aircraft case. The company believes DoD plans to deduct $66 million per company per month for the next 18 months.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
General Dynamics will seek a stay of that collection effort through the courts. DoD's entitlement to any payment in the A-12 matter is central to the issues that court is already scheduled to hear on January 9, 2003. Accordingly, the company believes DoD's collection effort is inappropriate and that it usurps the jurisdiction of the courts.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 54,000 people and anticipates 2002 revenues of $14 billion. The company has leading market positions in land and amphibious combat systems, mission-critical information systems and technologies, shipbuilding and marine systems, and business aviation. More information about the company is available at www.generaldynamics.com.


