FILE:GD/GD-8K-20040603172547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events.
     On June 3, 2004, General Dynamics announced that its Chairman and CEO, Nicholas D. Chabraja, extended his employment contract to April 2008. Copies of the press release and employment agreement are filed as exhibits to this Form 8-K.
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     10.1  Employment Agreement by and between General Dynamics Corporation and Nicholas D. Chabraja dated June 3, 2004.
     99.1  General Dynamics press release dated June 3, 2004, announcing its Chairman and CEO extended his employment contract.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 3, 2004

 
Exhibit 10.1
This Employment Agreement (including Attachments A & B) (the "2004 Employment Agreement") which is dated as of this 3rd day of June 2004, (the "Effective Date") by and between General Dynamics Corporation (the "Corporation") and Nicholas D. Chabraja, (a "Party" or collectively the "Parties").
, Mr. Chabraja is currently the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of its Board of Directors (the "Board") and has been since June 1, 1997; and
WHEREAS
, the Corporation entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Chabraja on August 7, 2002, providing for his employment through December 31, 2005; and
WHEREAS
, the Board, on behalf of the Corporation's shareholders, in recognition of Mr. Chabraja's continued exceptional performance and superb leadership, strongly desires to extend Mr. Chabraja's tenure as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer through April 30, 2008; and
WHEREAS
, Mr. Chabraja agrees to continue his employment in only this capacity.
WHEREAS
, the Parties agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the authority granted by the Corporation's Board of Directors to the Corporation's Senior Vice President  Human Resources & Administration, the Corporation has caused this Employment Agreement to be executed on behalf of itself and caused the Corporation's seal to be hereunto affixed and attested to by the Secretary of the Corporation. In like manner, the Executive has executed this Agreement on his behalf. This Agreement is effective as of the first date stated above.
 
, General Dynamics Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and Nicholas D. Chabraja (the "Executive") (collectively the "Parties") entered into an extension of Mr. Chabraja's Employment Agreement (the "2004 Employment Agreement"); and
WHEREAS
, the Corporation, as part of the 2004 Employment Agreement, has agreed to pay certain additional supplemental retirement benefits as provided herein.
WHEREAS
, in consideration for Mr. Chabraja's entering into the 2004 Employment Agreement, the Parties agree to the following terms and conditions (hereinafter the "2004 Retirement Agreement") which is incorporated by reference into Mr. Chabraja's Employment Agreement as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
6. .
Usage of Flight Hours

 
Exhibit 99.1
GENERAL DYNAMICS
General Dynamics Chairman and CEO Nicholas D. Chabraja Extends Contract to April 2008
 General Dynamics Chairman and CEO Nicholas D. Chabraja, 61, today extended his employment contract with the company through the end of April 2008, at the board of directors' request. Chabraja's previous agreement would have ended on December 31, 2005.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 68,400 people worldwide and anticipates 2004 revenues of approximately $19 billion. The company is a market leader in mission-critical information systems and technologies; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. More information about the company can be found at www.generaldynamics.com.


