FILE:GD/GD-8K-20051207163824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
(d) New Director
 
On December 7, 2005, the board of directors of General Dynamics elected Deborah J. Lucas as a member of the board of directors. The board appointed Dr. Lucas to the Audit Committee and the Benefits Plans and Investment Committee.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Dr. Lucas is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 7, 2005
 

December 7, 2005
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
Fax: 703 876 3555
rdoolitt@generaldynamics.com
 
General Dynamics Elects Deborah Lucas
to Board of Directors
 
, Va.  The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has elected Deborah Lucas a director of the corporation, and appointed her to serve on the board's Audit Committee and Benefit Plans and Investment Committee.
FALLS CHURCH
 
Lucas is the Donald C. Clark/Household International Distinguished Professor of Finance at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. She is currently a director of the American Finance Association, and an editor of the Journal of Money, Credit and Banking. She is a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and a member of the National Academy of Social Insurance.
 
Previous appointments include chief economist, Congressional Budget Office; senior staff economist, Council of Economic Advisers; member, Social Security Technical Advisory Panel; and visiting assistant professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Lucas has written on the behavior of equity markets, asset pricing, capital structure and Social Security reform.
 
Lucas received her Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Chicago.
 
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 71,900 people worldwide and had 2004 revenue of $19.2 billion. The company is a market leader in mission-critical information systems and technologies; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. More information about the company is available on the Internet at www.generaldynamics.com.
 


