FILE:GD/GD-8K-20070212155456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(b) and (e)
On February 8, 2007, General Dynamics announced that effective April 9, 2007, Bryan T. Moss will resign as executive vice president for the company's Aerospace group and president of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation. Mr. Moss will serve as president emeritus of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation until March 31, 2008. In connection with this change in position, Mr. Moss will receive a bonus in March 2008 equal to approximately 50 percent of his March 2007 bonus award and a bonus in March 2009 equal to approximately 25 percent of his March 2007 bonus award.
A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 12, 2007
 

January 24, 2007
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
Fax: 703 876 3555
rdoolittle@gd.com
General Dynamics Appoints Joe Lombardo President of Gulfstream; Bryan Moss to Become President Emeritus
,  General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has announced that, on April 9, Joseph T. Lombardo will become executive vice president of its Aerospace business group and president of subsidiary Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, succeeding Bryan T. Moss. Lombardo, who has been Gulfstream's chief operating officer since 2001, will report to Nicholas D. Chabraja, chairman and chief executive officer of General Dynamics. Moss, General Dynamics' executive vice president for the company's Aerospace group and president of Gulfstream since 2003, will become president emeritus of Gulfstream, a new position.
FALLS CHURCH
Va.
Chabraja said, "Bryan has been an exemplary leader at Gulfstream over the past four years. When we asked him to become president in 2003, the company and the industry were facing a number of challenges. With the benefit of his insight, and his ability to motivate and guide an exceptionally strong team at Gulfstream, he has been instrumental in helping to chart our course to the success we're enjoying today.
"We look forward to continuing to enjoy the benefit of Bryan's leadership in his new position, where he will focus his efforts on domestic and international customer relations and assist in the company's strategic planning and business-development activities."
"Joe Lombardo," Chabraja continued, "is a proven manager who has a strong work ethic, and who has earned the respect of his coworkers, customers and suppliers. Joe has been responsible for ensuring that Gulfstream's products meet or exceed expectations in their performance and quality, and I am confident that he will continue to exhibit that same high level of commitment to success in his new responsibilities."
 
As executive vice president for the General Dynamics Aerospace group, Lombardo will be responsible for both Gulfstream and General Dynamics Aviation Services.
As Gulfstream's chief operating officer, Lombardo, 58, is responsible for the quality, cost and schedule of the company's manufactured products. During his tenure, Gulfstream has significantly increased production rates while reducing cycle times and improving overall quality and efficiency. Previously, he had been senior vice president of operations since 1998, before which he was vice president of co-production, where he was responsible for the successful ramp-up and dual production of the Gulfstream IV-SP and Gulfstream V. He joined the company in 1996.
Moss, 66, as the Aerospace group's executive vice president, has been responsible for Gulfstream and General Dynamics Aviation Services since April 2003. Moss joined Gulfstream in 1995 as its vice chairman. He joined General Dynamics when it acquired Gulfstream in 1999, and became a vice president of the corporation in May 2002.
Moss began his commercial aerospace career in 1966 in engineering administration with the Lockheed-Georgia Company, joined the sales operation in 1968 and served in a variety of sales and sales management positions for the next 11 years. In 1979, he joined Canadair as the sales manager for the southeastern United States, becoming vice president of sales five years later. In 1986, he became the executive vice president of sales when Canadair became part of Bombardier Inc. One year later, he became president of Canadair's Challenger aircraft business. In 1992, he became the president of the business aircraft division of Bombardier Aerospace Group.
Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation designs, develops, manufactures, markets, services and supports the world's most technologically advanced business-jet aircraft. Gulfstream has produced more than 1,600 aircraft for customers around the world since 1958. The company employs more than 7,900 people at seven major locations. More information and photos of Gulfstream aircraft are available at www.gulfstream.com.
 
 
General Dynamics Aviation Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics, was formed in February 2001 to meet the maintenance needs of Challengers, Falcons, Gulfstreams, Hawkers and other business-jet aircraft. The business-jet service company serves a broad range of business aircraft owners through regional maintenance centers in Appleton, Wis.; Dallas; Minneapolis; Westfield, Mass.; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and Las Vegas. More information is available online at www.gdaviationservices.com.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., employs approximately 81,000 people worldwide and had 2006 revenues of $24.1 billion. The company is a market leader in mission-critical information systems and technologies; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. More information about the company is available online at www.generaldynamics.com.
 


