FILE:GD/GD-8K-20071205164957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 5, 2007, the board of directors of General Dynamics Corporation elected J. Christopher Reyes as a member of the board of directors. The board appointed Mr. Reyes to the Benefit Plans and Investment Committee and the Planning and Business Development Committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Reyes and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Reyes was elected as a director.
Subsequent to Mr. Reyes' election to the board of directors, Winnepeg, L.L.C., a company of which Mr. Reyes is chairman, will complete its purchase of an aircraft from Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, a subsidiary of General Dynamics, for a price of approximately $33,000,000. The sales agreement with Gulfstream was entered into in July, 2006, prior to the consideration of Mr. Reyes' election to the board. The terms and conditions of the sales agreement were negotiated in an arm's-length transaction and represent standard terms and conditions. The election of Mr. Reyes to the board is unrelated to the sales agreement.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Reyes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 5, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
December 5, 2007
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
Fax: 703 876 3555
rdoolitt@generaldynamics.com
General Dynamics Elects J. Christopher Reyes
to Board of Directors, Authorizes Share Repurchases
 The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has elected J. Christopher Reyes (53) a director of the corporation, and has appointed him to serve on the board's Benefit Plans and Investment Committee and the Planning and Business Development Committee. In a separate action, the board authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares of the company's issued and outstanding common stock on the open market.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
Reyes is co-chairman and one of the founders of Reyes Holdings, L.L.C., of Rosemont, Ill. Together with his brother, Jude, Reyes has led Reyes Holdings' growth for three decades, building the privately held business into one of the leading providers of food and beverage distribution services in North, Central and South America.
Among other affiliations, Reyes is the chairman of Children's Memorial Medical Center (Chicago, Ill.) and vice chair of the Chicago 2016 Olympic Committee. He is a director of The Allstate Corporation, Northwestern Memorial Healthcare and the Museum of Science and Industry. He is a member of the Mayo Clinic Chicago Leadership Council, the Northwestern University Medical Affairs Committee, and the boards of trustees of Lake Forest Academy and the University of Notre Dame.
Reyes' election increases the number of directors on the company's board to thirteen.
Share repurchases authorized today, which could represent up to 2.5 percent of the company's 402.4 million outstanding shares, may be made at management's discretion. The company has repurchased approximately 6.4 million shares since June 2006, significantly reducing its previous repurchase authority.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., employs approximately 83,000 people worldwide and anticipates 2007 revenues of more than $27 billion. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available online at .
www.generaldynamics.com


