FILE:GD/GD-8K-20080508153103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers
On May 7, 2008, General Dynamics announced that Nicholas D. Chabraja, the company's chairman and chief executive officer, has advised the board of directors that, consistent with his employment agreement, he will step down as chief executive officer on June 30, 2009. Mr. Chabraja will continue with the company as chairman of the board through the annual meeting of shareholders in May 2010.
On May 7, 2008, the board also announced that Jay L. Johnson, currently a member of the board of directors of General Dynamics and chief executive officer of Dominion Virginia Power, will become vice chairman of the board and an executive officer of the company on September 2, 2008. He will become chief executive officer on July 1, 2009, following Mr. Chabraja's retirement from that position. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Johnson's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Jay L. Johnson, 61, has been chief executive officer of Dominion Virginia Power, one of the nation's 10 largest investor-owned electric utilities, since 2007 and executive vice president of Dominion Resources, Inc. since 2002. He served as president and chief executive officer of Dominion Delivery from 2002 to 2007 and a senior vice president of Dominion Energy, Inc. from 2000 to 2002. Prior to joining Dominion, Mr. Johnson had a distinguished career as an officer in the U.S. Navy. He retired as an Admiral in July 2000 after serving as Chief of Naval Operations. Johnson is a 1968 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy.
Pursuant to an offer letter between the company and Mr. Johnson, he will receive an initial base salary of $845,000. He will also be eligible to participate in the company's benefit programs generally available to executive officers of the company. Beginning in 2009, he will be eligible to receive a bonus and long-term equity grant in accordance with the terms of the company's executive compensation program. Any cash bonus awarded to Mr. Johnson in March 2009 for 2008 performance will be pro-rated based on the number of days he is employed by the company during 2008.
Mr. Johnson will receive an initial grant of shares of restricted stock and options to purchase shares of common stock of the company to offset the loss of his Dominion pension benefit and the forfeiture of shares of restricted stock. The grant date value of this initial equity grant will be $2,600,000 to offset the pension benefit loss plus an amount equal to the number of shares of restricted stock of Dominion forfeited by Mr. Johnson on his termination of employment with Dominion times the fair market value (average of the high and low stock price) of Dominion common stock on the date of forfeiture. The restricted stock and stock options will be granted at fair market value on the first trading day following the commencement of Mr. Johnson's employment and will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the company's equity compensation plan applicable to all plan participants.
Mr. Johnson will be subject to the company's stock ownership guidelines for corporate officers of the company. Pursuant to these guidelines, he will be precluded from selling shares of company common stock until he owns outright shares of common stock with a market value worth 10 times his base salary.
 
The company will enter into a severance protection agreement with Mr. Johnson effective September 2, 2008. The company has entered into similar severance protection agreements with other executive officers and key employees. The agreement will provide that Mr. Johnson is entitled to payments and benefits if, within 24 months after a change of control of the company, he terminates his employment for good reason or the company terminates his employment without cause. Generally, these benefits will include payment of all accrued compensation, a pro-rata bonus, a severance payment equal to 2.99 times his annual salary and bonus, continuation of medical, dental, life insurance and disability benefits for 36 months, an additional 36 months service credit for purposes of qualifying for post-retirement health and welfare benefits, outplacement services for a period not to exceed 12 months, and reimbursement for tax and financial services.
Exhibit 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits (furnished only)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 8, 2008
 

 
General Dynamics' Chabraja to Remain Chairman through May 2010; Board Names Johnson to Succeed as CEO in June 2009
 General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) announced today that Nicholas D. Chabraja, the company's chairman and chief executive officer, has advised the board that, consistent with his employment agreement, he will step down as chief executive officer on June 30, 2009. Mr. Chabraja will continue with the company as chairman of the board of directors through the annual meeting of shareholders in May 2010.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
To ensure continuity in the management and operation of the company, the board of directors today formally approved a succession plan for the position of chief executive officer. The board announced that Jay L. Johnson, 61, currently a member of the board of directors of General Dynamics and chief executive officer of Dominion Virginia Power, will become vice chairman of the board and an executive officer of the company on September 2, 2008. He will become chief executive officer on July 1, 2009, following Mr. Chabraja's retirement from that position. Mr. Johnson has been a member of the General Dynamics board since 2003.
In announcing the board's action, Chabraja said, "The board and I are extremely pleased to have Jay join the company's senior management team. He has been a trusted advisor and member of our board for five years. His experience as a successful corporate executive at Dominion and Chief of Naval Operations of the U.S. Navy prepares him to be a successful and effective leader of General Dynamics."
Chabraja continued, "In my role as chairman, I will continue to provide overall strategic and organizational guidance and will assist management as requested."
"I am pleased to join the General Dynamics management team," said Johnson. "I'm moving from one great company to another, and am excited about this opportunity to expand my relationship with this tremendous corporation."
Johnson has been chief executive officer of Dominion Virginia Power since 2007 and executive vice president of Dominion Resources, Inc., since 2002. He served as president and chief executive officer of Dominion Delivery from 2002 to 2007 and a senior vice president of Dominion Energy, Inc., from 2000 to 2002. Prior to joining Dominion, Johnson had a distinguished career as an officer in the U.S. Navy. He retired as an Admiral in July 2000 after serving as Chief of Naval Operations. Johnson is a 1968 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat vehicles and systems, armaments, and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and mission-critical information systems and technologies. The company employs approximately 84,000 people worldwide and reported 2007 revenues of $27.2 billion.


