FILE:GD/GD-8K-20091008163742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Election of Director
On October 7, 2009, the board of directors of General Dynamics Corporation elected William A. Osborn as a member of the board of directors, effective December 1, 2009. Mr. Osborn has not yet been appointed to any committees of the board. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Osborn and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Osborn was elected as a director. At this time, the company is not aware of any transactions with Mr. Osborn that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
As a non-employee director, Mr. Osborn will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the company in accordance with the policies and procedures previously approved by the board for non-employee directors as disclosed under the caption "Director Compensation" in the company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 20, 2009.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Osborn is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 8, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
General Dynamics Elects William A. Osborn
to Board of Directors
 The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has elected William A. Osborn a director of the corporation, effective December 1.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
Osborn, age 61, is the chairman and a director of the Northern Trust Corporation, a leading worldwide provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, banking solutions and fiduciary services, and its principal subsidiary, The Northern Trust Company. Osborn joined Northern Trust in 1970. He was named president and chief operating officer in December 1993 and was named chief executive officer, in addition to president, in June 1995. He became chairman in October 1995 and ended his tenure as CEO in December 2007. Osborn will retire from the board of Northern Trust in November 2009.
Among other affiliations, Osborn is a director of Caterpillar Inc., Tribune Company and Abbott Laboratories. He is chairman of the board of trustees of Northwestern University and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association, and a trustee of the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry. He serves on the board of directors of Northwestern Memorial HealthCare, the Chicago Urban League, The Renaissance Schools Fund and the Lyric Opera of Chicago, and he is a member of the board of managers of the YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago and the advisory board of the J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., employs approximately 92,000 people worldwide. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available online at .
www.generaldynamics.com


