FILE:GD/GD-8K-20090602212451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 2, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed an earlier decision by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims sustaining the government's default termination of the A-12 aircraft contract.
The company disagrees with this most recent ruling and continues to believe that the government's default termination was not justified. The company also believes that the ruling provides significant grounds for appeal, and intends to seek a re-hearing in the Federal Circuit.
A copy of a press release issued by the company regarding the decision is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 3, 2009
 

 
June 2, 2009
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
Fax: 703 876 3555
rdoolittle@gd.com
General Dynamics to Appeal A-12 Decision
, Va.  The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today affirmed an earlier decision by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims sustaining the government's default termination of the A-12 aircraft contract to which General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) and McDonnell Douglas were parties with the Navy. McDonnell Douglas is now owned by The Boeing Company.
FALLS CHURCH
General Dynamics disagrees with this most recent ruling and continues to believe that the government's default termination was not justified. The company also believes that the ruling provides significant grounds for appeal, and intends to seek a re-hearing in the Federal Circuit.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 92,900 people worldwide. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available on the Internet at .
www.generaldynamics.com


