FILE:GD/GD-8K-20110510161041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the company, for which proxies were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, was held on May 4, 2011.
In an uncontested election, each of the following nominees was elected to the Board of Directors according to the following votes:
 
The results of voting on Proposals 2 through 6 (as numbered in the company's 2011 Proxy Statement) were as follows:
Proposal 2. Shareholders approved the selection of KPMG LLP as the company's independent auditors for 2011.
 
 
Proposal 3. Shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation paid to the company's named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K and contained in the 2011 Proxy Statement, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, compensation tables and narrative discussion.
 
Proposal 4. Shareholders recommended, on an advisory basis, that Future Advisory Compensation Votes (as defined in the 2011 Proxy Statement) be held every year.
 
The Board of Directors intends, consistent with the above vote, to hold Future Advisory Compensation Votes every year.
Proposal 5. Shareholders rejected a shareholder proposal requesting management review policies related to human rights and to report its findings by December 2011.
 
 
Proposal 6. Shareholders rejected a shareholder proposal requesting that the board take the steps necessary to amend the company's bylaws and each appropriate governing document to give holders of 10% of the company's outstanding common stock the power to call a special shareholder meeting.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 10, 2011
 


