FILE:GD/GD-8K-20110803165712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) On August 3, 2011, the board of directors of General Dynamics Corporation elected James L. Jones as a member of the board of directors, effective immediately. Mr. Jones has been appointed as a member of the Finance and Benefit Plans Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Jones and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Jones was elected as a director. At this time, the company is not aware of any transactions with Mr. Jones that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
As a non-employee director, Mr. Jones will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the company as disclosed under the caption "Director Compensation" in the company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2011.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Jones is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 3, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
August 3, 2011
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
rdoolitt@generaldynamics.com
General Dynamics Elects James L. Jones to Board of Directors
 The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has elected James L. Jones to be a director of the corporation, effective August 3, 2011.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
Jones, who is 67, served as the National Security Advisor to the President of the United States from January 2009 to November 2010. Previously, he was the United States' special envoy for Middle East regional security.
Jones retired from the U.S. Marine Corps in 2007 after more than 40 years of service. From 1999 to 2003, he was the 32nd Commandant of the Marine Corps. After his service as commandant, Jones was Supreme Allied Commander, Europe (SACEUR), and Commander of the United States European Command (USEUCOM), positions he held until 2006.
"Jim Jones' depth of knowledge and experience in global security issues makes him a valuable addition to the General Dynamics board," said Jay L. Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer of General Dynamics.
Jones is currently president of Jones Group International, a global consultancy, and he serves on the boards of the Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Atlantic Council of the United States, the East-West Institute, and the Bi-Partisan Policy Council.
Jones holds a Bachelor of Science degree and an Honorary Doctorate of Letters from Georgetown University. He is also a graduate from the National War College.
More information about General Dynamics is available online at www.generaldynamics.com.


