FILE:GD/GD-8K-20110808172536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) On August 8, 2011, General Dynamics Corporation issued a press release announcing that Jason W. Aiken, who has been a vice president of the company and the company's controller since April 1, 2010, will become the chief financial officer of the company's Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation subsidiary, effective September 1, 2011.
(c) The company also announced that on August 3, 2011, the board of directors elected Kimberly A. Kuryea to succeed Mr. Aiken as vice president and controller of the company, effective September 1, 2011. Ms. Kuryea, age 44, has served as chief financial officer of the company's General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems subsidiary since November 2007, and prior to that time served as staff vice president of internal audit for the company from March 2004 to October 2007.
A copy of a press release issued by the company regarding these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
August 8, 2011
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
rdoolittle@gd.com
General Dynamics Appoints Jason W. Aiken, Kimberly A. Kuryea to Key Finance Positions
, Va.  General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) announced today that Jason W. Aiken will become the chief financial officer of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation on September 1, reporting to Larry R. Flynn, president. Aiken, who is a vice president of the corporation, has been General Dynamics' controller since 2010. Aiken will succeed Daniel G. Clare, who in July became president of Jet Aviation.
FALLS CHURCH
Kimberly A. Kuryea will succeed Aiken as controller on September 1. Kuryea has been chief financial officer of General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems since 2007. Kuryea will report to Hugh Redd, senior vice president and chief financial officer of General Dynamics. Kuryea was elected by the company's board of directors to be a vice president of General Dynamics on August 3.
Gulfstream Aerospace Corp., Jet Aviation and Advanced Information Systems are subsidiaries of General Dynamics.
Aiken, 38, a CPA in the Commonwealth of Virginia, joined General Dynamics in June 2002 as a director of consolidation accounting. He became staff vice president of accounting in July 2006, and became a vice president and was appointed controller on April 1, 2010. Prior to joining General Dynamics, Aiken was an audit manager with Arthur Andersen LLP. Aiken holds a bachelor's degree in business administration and accounting from Washington and Lee University, and a master's of business administration from Northwestern University.
Kuryea, 44, came to General Dynamics as a director of financial planning in 2000. She became staff vice president of internal audit in March 2004, first reporting to the chief financial officer and then reporting to the corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. Kuryea holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Georgetown University and a master's of business administration from Duke University.
 
Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation designs, develops, manufactures, markets, services and supports a comprehensive fleet of the world's most technologically advanced business-jet aircraft. Gulfstream has produced more than 1,900 aircraft for customers around the world since 1958. Gulfstream also offers aircraft ownership services via Gulfstream Pre-Owned Aircraft Sales. The company employs more than 10,000 people at 10 major locations. More information and photos of Gulfstream aircraft are available at www.gulfstream.com.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, employs approximately 88,000 people worldwide. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available on the Internet at www.generaldynamics.com.


