FILE:GD/GD-8K-20110304161934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On March 2, 2011, the board of directors of General Dynamics Corporation elected Mary T. Barra as a member of the board of directors, effective March 15, 2011. Ms. Barra has not yet been appointed to any committees of the board. There is no arrangement or understanding between Ms. Barra and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Barra was elected as a director. At this time, the company is not aware of any transactions with Ms. Barra that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
As a non-employee director, Ms. Barra will receive the same compensation paid to other non-employee directors of the company as disclosed under the caption "Director Compensation" in the company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19, 2010. Subsequent to the filing of the proxy statement, the board approved a $5,000 increase in the annual cash retainer for directors and a $500 increase in the fee for attendance at board meetings.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Ms. Barra is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 4, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
March 4, 2011
Contact: Rob Doolittle
Tel: 703 876 3199
rdoolitt@generaldynamics.com
General Dynamics Elects Mary T. Barra
to Board of Directors
 The board of directors of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) has elected Mary T. Barra to be a director of the corporation, effective March 15.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
Barra, age 49, is the senior vice president of Global Product Development for General Motors Company (NYSE: GM), one of the world's largest automakers. In that position, Barra leads the design, engineering, program management and quality of vehicles for the company's 11 brands around the world, and is a member of the company's Executive Committee.
Previously she was vice president of Global Human Resources, leading GM's human resources worldwide. Prior to that appointment she was vice president, Global Manufacturing Engineering. Barra has also held a number of engineering and staff positions, including plant manager, Detroit Hamtramck Assembly Plant; executive director of Competitive Operations Engineering; and general director of Internal Communications for GM North America.
"As a manufacturing-based company, we welcome the insight that Mary will bring to the board from her broad experience in manufacturing, engineering and innovation," said Jay L. Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer of General Dynamics.
Barra holds a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from General Motors Institute (Kettering University) and a master's degree in Business Administration from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. She is a director of the Michigan-based Inforum Center for Leadership and a trustee of Kettering University.
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., employs approximately 90,000 people worldwide. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available online at .
www.generaldynamics.com


