FILE:GD/GD-8K-20120308162428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c) On March 8, 2012, General Dynamics Corporation issued a press release announcing that on March 7, 2012, the board of directors elected Phebe N. Novakovic as president and chief operating officer of the company, effective May 2, 2012. Ms. Novakovic, age 54, has served as executive vice president of Marine Systems since May 2010. Ms. Novakovic also served as senior vice president of planning and development from July 2005 to May 2010, and vice president of strategic planning from October 2002 to July 2005.
A copy of a press release issued by the company is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 8, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
March 8, 2012
Contact: Kendell Pease
Tel: 703 876 3093
kpease@gd.com
General Dynamics Board Elects Novakovic to be President and Chief Operating Officer
 General Dynamics (NYSE: GD) announced today that its board of directors has elected Phebe N. Novakovic, 54, to be the corporation's president and chief operating officer reporting to Jay L. Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer. The appointment is effective May 2, 2012.
FALLS CHURCH, Va.
In announcing the board's action Johnson said, "The board and I are pleased to promote Phebe to fulfill these new responsibilities. She has performed well in her role as executive vice president of Marine Systems and previously as senior vice president of planning and development, and is more than ready to assume a larger role in the corporation.
"I look forward to working with her as General Dynamics continues to demonstrate its leadership in delivering innovative, high-performing products and services to our customers," Johnson said. "As president and chief operating officer, Phebe will assist me with the oversight and management of the company's business groups as well as its headquarters operations."
Novakovic became an executive vice president of General Dynamics in May 2010. She is responsible for the Marine Systems group, which includes three companies: Bath Iron Works, Electric Boat and NASSCO. Novakovic had been senior vice president  Planning and Development since July 2005, where she was responsible for government relations, communications, international, investor relations and strategic planning. She also has served as vice president  Strategic Planning, a position to which she was appointed in October 2002.
Novakovic said, "I am honored that the board has entrusted me with this new position. I look forward to serving with Jay as General Dynamics continues to provide value to our shareholders and our customers."
 
 
General Dynamics, headquartered in Falls Church, Va., employs approximately 95,100 people worldwide. The company is a market leader in business aviation; land and expeditionary combat systems, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and information systems and technologies. More information about the company is available on the Internet at .
www.generaldynamics.com


