Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Southern Company. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 9 through II 23. Alabama Power. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 58 through II 70. Georgia Power. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 98 through II 110. Gulf Power. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 139 through II 151. Mississippi Power. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 176 through II 188. Savannah Electric. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 215 through II 227. Southern Power. Reference is made to information under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," contained herein at pages II 251 through II 259. II 2 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Reference is made to information in Southern Companys "Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Price Risk" in Item 7 herein and to Notes 1 and 8 to Southern Companys financial statements under the heading "Financial Instruments" contained herein on pages II 17, II 35 and II 47, respectively. Reference is also made to "Managements Discussion and Analysis Exposure to Market Risks" in Item 7 of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Savannah Electric and Southern Power contained herein at pages II 64, II 104, II 144, II 220, and II 257, respectively. Reference is also made to "Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Price Risk" in Item 7 of Mississippi Power contained herein at page II 182. Further reference is made to Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for the operating companies and Southern Power, also Note 7 to the financial statements of Alabama Power and Southern Power and Note 9 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under the headings "Financial Instruments." II 3 
 
