FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20050316163047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)   
March 15, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Item 5.02(b). On March 15, 2005, the PACCAR Board of Directors accepted the resignation of Harry C. Stonecipher as a director of the Company effective immediately. A copy of the press release announcing this action is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 The PACCAR (Nasdaq: PCAR) Board of Directors today accepted the resignation of Harry Stonecipher as a Director of the company, effective immediately. PACCAR thanks him for his positive business contribution to the success of the company.
March 15, 2005, Bellevue, Washington
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt, DAF and Foden nameplates. It also provides financial services and distributes truck parts related to its principal business. In addition, the Bellevue, Washington-based company manufactures industrial winches under the Braden, Gearmatic and Carco nameplates.
PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage can be found at .
www.paccar.com


