FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20050916183528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
                                     
September 13, 2005
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 
o
 
Item 1.01
                                            
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 13, 2005, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors amended the PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors to increase the dollar amount used to determine the annual restricted stock award from $60,000 to $90,000 per year effective January 1, 2006.  A copy of the amended Section 4 of the PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
 
Item 5.02
                                            
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 13, 2005, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors elected Alison J. Carnwath to the Board of Directors, effective October 3, 2005. There are no reportable transactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. A copy of the press release announcing the appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Report.
 
The information required by  Item 5.02(d)(3) is not available at this time.
 
Item 5.03
                                            
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On September 13, 2005, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors approved an updated and restated  Certificate of Incorporation, effective upon filing with the Secretary of State of Delaware.  A copy of the restated Certificate of Incorporation is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Report.
 
On September 13, 2005, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors adopted Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The amendments modernized the means of giving notice of Board meetings under Article II, eliminated Article V Section VII regarding borrowing authorities, and corrected grammatical and language inconsistencies.  A copy of the amended and restated bylaws is attached as Exhibit 99.4 to this Report .
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Effective January 1, 2006, Section 4 is amended to read as follows:
 
AWARDS OF RESTRICTED STOCK
4.
            
 
(a) On January 1, 2006 and on the first business day of each  calendar year thereafter for the duration of the PLAN (the GRANT DATE), each person who is a NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR shall receive a grant of RESTRICTED STOCK in an amount to be determined in accordance with the following formula: The number of shares of RESTRICTED STOCK granted to each NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR each calendar year shall be determined by (i) dividing ninety thousand dollars ($90,000) by the FAIR MARKET VALUE of the COMMON STOCK on the GRANT DATE, and (ii) rounding the resulting number up to the nearest whole share.
 
(b) Shares of RESTRICTED STOCK shall become unrestricted on the third anniversary of the applicable GRANT DATE subject to the provisions of Section 10. Shares of RESTRICTED STOCK may not be resold or otherwise transferred by a GRANTEE until such shares become unrestricted in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4(b).
 
(c) Each RESTRICTED STOCK grant shall be evidenced by a written RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT that shall be executed by the GRANTEE and an authorized COMPANY representative which shall indicate the date of the RESTRICTED STOCK award, the number of shares of COMMON STOCK awarded, and contain such terms and conditions as the COMMITTEE shall determine with respect to such RESTRICTED STOCK grant consistent with the PLAN.
 
(d) A PACCAR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR elected during a calendar year is entitled to an award of RESTRICTED STOCK.  The number of shares of RESTRICTED STOCK granted for the first year of service shall be calculated as follows: (i) ninety thousand dollars ($90,000) shall be prorated for the number of calendar quarters of service as a PACCAR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR; (ii) that sum shall be divided by the FAIR MARKET VALUE of the COMMON STOCK on the date the NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR's board service becomes effective (the GRANT DATE); (iii) the resulting number shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Alison J. Carnwath has been named to PACCAR Inc's Board of Directors, effective October 3, 2005, according to Mark C. Pigott, PACCAR chairman and chief executive officer.
September 13, 2005, Bellevue, Washington
 
Alison J. Carnwath is an adviser to Lexicon Partners, an independent corporate finance advisory firm, and chairman of the management board and investment committee at ISIS Equity Partners, LLP, a private equity firm, both based in the United Kingdom. She was chairman of Vitec Group plc, a British supplier of products and services to the broadcast and media industries, from April 1999 to October 2004 and was its chief executive officer during 2001. She was a managing director of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, a New York based investment bank, from 1997-2000. She is a director of Friends Provident plc, Gallaher Group, plc, Land Securities plc and Man Group plc, all United Kingdom listed companies. Ms. Carnwath was recently named, by the , as one of the "top 100" most influential directors in the United Kingdom.
London Times
 
"PACCAR is very pleased that Ms. Carnwath will be joining the Board. Her thorough understanding of international finance and her impressive background in global investment banking provide a strong perspective that will benefit PACCAR and its shareholders," said Mr. Pigott.
 
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. It also provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
 
PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage can be found at www.paccar.com.
 

Exhibit 99.3
The Corporation's original certificate of incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on November 19, 1971.  This restated certificate, which was duly adopted by a resolution of the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation as theretofore amended or supplemented, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this restated certificate.  As a result of the foregoing, the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation is restated in its entirety as follows:
 
:  The name of this Corporation shall be
FIRST
 
:  The Corporation's Registered Office shall be at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808.  The Corporation's Registered Agent shall be The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the business office of which is identical with the Corporation's Registered Office.
SECOND
:  The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
THIRD
 
:  The Corporation is authorized to issue 401,000,000 shares of stock of all classes, consisting of 400,000,000 shares of common stock having a par value of $1 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock having no par value.  Each holder of record of shares of common stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock outstanding in his name of record on the books of the Corporation.  The holders of shares of preferred stock shall have no vote other than as may be provided by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Other than as here expressly provided, the Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly granted the authority to fix by resolution or resolutions, the voting power, designations, preferences and relative participating optional or other special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof in respect of any class or classes of stock or any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH
 
Pursuant to the foregoing authority, the Board of Directors has previously authorized the issuance of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock by filing a Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
 
dated January 22, 1990 with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 31, 1990, and amended same by filing an Amended Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock dated February 25, 1999 with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 1, 1999.  The number of shares included in the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and the rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof are set forth in Appendix A hereto.
 
:  The original Bylaws of the Corporation may be adopted by the incorporator.  Thereafter the power to make, alter or repeal Bylaws is conferred upon the Directors of the Corporation.
FIFTH
 
:  The Corporation shall have and may exercise all powers and rights, including but not limited to the power to indemnify its directors, officers, employees and agents, or any of them, in all respects as and to the full extent authorized or permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same has been heretofore or may be hereafter amended and by the provisions of this Certificate.
SIXTH
 
:  The affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall be necessary for the following corporate actions:
SEVENTH
 
The removal, with or without cause, of any Director or the entire Board of Directors;
1.
                                      
Amendment of this Certificate of Incorporation;
2.
                                      
 
Adoption of an agreement of merger or consolidation;
3.
                                      
 
The sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets;
4.
                                      
 
Dissolution of the Corporation; and
5.
                                      
 
Approval of a stockholder action to make, alter or repeal the Bylaws.
6.
                                      
 
:  If any "Unfriendly Suitor" (as described below, hereafter "Suitor") becomes the beneficial owner after the record date for the 1986 stockholders' meeting, directly or indirectly, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation, then in addition to the two-thirds (2/3) voting requirement for any transactions described in paragraphs 3, 4 or 5 of Article SEVENTH (each called "a Business Combination"), the following shall also be necessary:
EIGHTH
 
The cash, or fair market value of other consideration, to be received per share by stockholders of the Corporation in any Business Combination in which the Suitor has a direct or indirect material interest, other than solely as a Stockholder of the Corporation, shall not be less than the highest per share price (including brokerage commissions and/or soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Suitor in acquiring any of its holdings of the Corporation's common stock.
1.
                                      
The Suitor shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or tax benefits provided by the Corporation.
2.
                                      
 
The term Suitor includes any person, corporation, or affiliate and any party with which the Suitor has a direct or indirect agreement, understanding or arrangement for the purpose of acquiring, holding or voting stock of the Corporation.
 
The affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, other than stock held by the Suitor, shall be necessary to amend this Article EIGHTH.
 
:
NINTH
 
The number of the directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to the Bylaws of the Corporation.  The directors shall be classified, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, as shall be provided in the manner specified in the Bylaws of the Corporation, one class to be originally elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1987, another class to be originally elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1988, and another class to be originally
1.
                                      
elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1989, with each class to hold office until its successor is elected and qualified.  At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election.
Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
2.
                                      
:  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by the stockholders.  Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
TENTH
 
:  The liability of the Corporation's directors to the Corporation or its stockholders shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law as amended from time to time.  Any amendment or repeal of this Article ELEVENTH shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director for acts or omissions prior to such amendment or repeal.
ELEVENTH
 
:
TWELFTH
 
Right to Indemnification.  Each person made or threatened to be made a party to or involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she (or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative) is or was a
1.
                                      
director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of the proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as it now exists or may be amended, against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by a person in connection with a proceeding.  The indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Article TWELFTH, the Corporation shall indemnify any person seeking indemnification in
connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if the proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  The right to indemnification conferred in this Article TWELFTH shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by a person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of the director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article TWELFTH or otherwise.  The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the
Corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers.
 
If a claim under paragraph 1 of this Article TWELFTH is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the cost and expense (including attorneys' fees) of prosecuting the claim.  It shall be a defense to an action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation.  Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of
2.
                                      
the action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article TWELFTH shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
3.
                                      
 
The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the
4.
                                      
power to indemnify such person against the expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by M. C. Pigott, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer this 16th day of September, 2005.
 
Appendix A
 
Section 1.  .  The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 50,000.  Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
provided
 
Section 2.  .
Dividends and Distributions
 
Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock, no par value per share (the "Preferred Stock"), of the Corporation (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject
(A)
                             
to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 10,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 10,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
(B)
                               
 
Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such
(C)
                               
shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.  Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.  The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
 
Section 3.  .  The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
 
Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 10,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(A)
                             
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the
(B)
                               
Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
 
Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
(C)
                               
 
Section 4.  .
Certain Restrictions
 
Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A  Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(A)
                             
 
(i)  declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
 
(ii)  declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
 
(iii)  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(iv)  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
(B)
                               
 
Section 5.  .  Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
 
Section 6.  .  Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $10,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 10,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
(2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A  Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
Section 7.    In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 10,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
Section 8.  .  The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
 
Section 9.  .  The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
Rank
 
Section 10.  .  The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendment

Exhibit 99.4
 
.  The affairs of the Company shall be managed by a Board of Directors.  The number of Directors shall be determined by the Directors.  The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible.
Sec. 1
 
The term of office of the Directors initially classified shall be as follows:  that of Class I shall expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders in 1987, Class II at the second succeeding annual meeting of stockholders in 1988 and Class III at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders in 1989.  At each annual meeting of stockholders after such initial classification, Directors chosen to succeed those whose terms then expire at such annual meeting shall be elected for a term of office expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election.  Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other
cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.  Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of Directors in which the new Directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until the Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
 
No person who is seventy two (72) years of age or older shall be eligible for election as a Director.  The term of any person serving as a Director shall expire automatically on the day preceding the first annual meeting of stockholders following the Director's seventy second (72nd) birth date.
 
.  The Board of Directors shall hold a meeting for organization and all other business immediately following the annual meeting of the stockholders.
Sec. 1
 
.  Meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman at any time on five days' notice if such notice thereof is given electronically or personally or on seven
Sec. 2
days' notice if such notice is given by mail to each member of the Board.  Meetings of the Board of Directors shall also be called upon like notice by the Secretary of the Company at any time upon written request therefor signed by a majority of the Directors filed therewith.  Calls for meetings shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail postage prepaid or delivered electronically as the case may be, and addressed to a member of the Board at his last known delivery address.
 
.  Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the place, either within the State of Delaware or elsewhere, and on the date and at the hour designated in the call therefor.
Sec. 3
 
.  Any irregularity in calling or holding meetings may be cured by ratification of the proceedings signed by all the Directors and entered upon the minute book.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all the Directors and filed with the minutes of the Board.
Sec. 4
 
.  At Directors' meetings, half or more of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the concurring vote of a majority of the Directors present shall be sufficient to pass any measure.  If less than a quorum
Sec. 5
be present at any meeting, the chairman of the meeting may adjourn it from time to time until a quorum be present.
 
.  The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held at such place on such day during the first half of each calendar year and at such hour as may be designated by the Board of Directors.
Sec. 1
 
.  The Secretary shall give written notice of the annual meeting to all stockholders of record by any means authorized by the Board of Directors and Delaware law not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting.
Sec. 2
 
.  At all stockholders' meetings a majority of all the stock issued and outstanding and having voting power shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  If a less amount of stock be present or represented, the chairman of the meeting shall adjourn it from time to time until a quorum be present - but no such adjournment shall be longer than for one week at a time.  This quorum requirement shall have no effect upon the affirmative vote required for approval of the actions stated in Article SEVENTH of the Company's Certificate of
Sec. 3
Incorporation or as provided in Article EIGHTH for amendment of that Article.
 
.  Special meetings of stockholders may be called from time to time by a majority of the Board of Directors.  Special meetings shall be held solely for the purpose or purposes specified in the notice of meeting.
Sec. 4
 
.  At an annual meeting of the stockholders only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (b) by any stockholder of the Company who complies with Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any successor thereof or (c) by any stockholder of the Company entitled to vote at the meetingwho complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 5.  For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company the business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action and the stockholder must be a stockholder of record at the time notice is given. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received at the principal executive offices of the Company, not less than 90days nor more than 120days prior to thefirst anniversary of the prior year's annualmeeting  A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring
Sec. 5
,
,
.
before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the Company which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and (d) any material interest of the stockholder in such business.  Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 5.  The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not a proper matter for stockholder action or not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.  If he should so determine and declare, any such business shall not be transacted.
 
.  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws shall be eligible for election as Directors.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company may be made at a meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Company who is a stockholder of record at the time the nomination is made, who is entitled to vote for the election of Directors at the meeting
Sec. 6
and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 6.  Nominations by stockholders shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Company.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90days nor more than 120 days prior to thefirst anniversary of the prior year's annualmeetingSuch stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a Director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of such stockholder and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are beneficially owned by such stockholder.  At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a Director shall furnish to the Secretary of the Company that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee.  No person shall be eligible for
. 
election as a Director of the Company unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Bylaws.  The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Bylaws.  If he should so determine and declare, the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
.  At all stockholders' meetings, stockholders may vote in person or by proxy.
Sec. 7
 
.  The deposit in any general or branch post office of a notice of any general or special meeting of stockholders enclosed in a sealed and fully postpaid envelope and addressed to a stockholder at his post office address shown on the books of the Company shall be, as to the stockholder so addressed, sufficient notice of such meeting.  Notice by electronic transmission as authorized by Delaware law is also sufficient notice of such meeting.
Sec. 8
 
.  Prior to each meeting of stockholders, the Chairman shall appoint two or more Inspectors of Election who shall verify all proxies, report the number of shares represented by proxy and by actual attendance at the meeting,
Sec. 1
count all votes cast, and report in writing the result of all voting.
 
All questions raised by the stockholders regarding the qualification of votes, the validation of proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by the Chairman of the meeting.
 
.  The officers of the Company shall be the Chairman or Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, one or more Vice Presidents (any of whom may be designated Executive or Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the Chairman by a writing filed with the Secretary), a Treasurer, a Secretary, and such other officers as may be provided for from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Such officers shall have the powers and perform the duties prescribed by these Bylaws or as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman.  Each officer shall hold his office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation, retirement, or removal.
Sec. 1
 
.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  He shall have
Sec. 2
the responsibility for the general management and control of the affairs and business of the Company and shall have all powers which are commonly incident to the office of chief executive or which are delegated to him by the Board of Directors.  He shall have general supervision and direction of all of the officers and agents of the Company and by a writing filed with the Secretary may from time to time designate titles for employees and agents as may be appropriate in the conduct of the affairs of the Company, and in the same manner, may terminate such titles.  He shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
.  The President shall have such powers as may be conferred upon him from time to time by the Chairman or by the Board of Directors.  In the absence of the Chairman or at his request, the President shall preside at meetings of the stockholders.
Sec. 3
 
.  A Vice President or Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors, Executive Committee or the Chairman may from time to time direct or prescribe.
Sec. 4
 
.  The Secretary shall coordinate the Company's contacts and communications with its stockholders and with those Government agencies having cognizance over such matters, shall attend to the giving of the necessary notice of all meetings of
Sec. 5
stockholders and of Directors, shall keep a record of all transactions, proceedings and votings at all meetings, shall have charge of and general supervision over the stock and transfer books of the Company, shall prepare and keep open for inspection all lists of stockholders and of other lists and records required by statute.  He shall have charge of and safeguard those records of the Company which are caused to be entered in the Corporate Documents Ledger.  He shall have custody of the Corporate Seal of the Company and he shall have the authority to affix the same to any instrument and when so affixed, it may be attested by his signature.  He shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of Directors or Executive Committee.
 
.  The Chairman of the Board and such other officers, employees, or agents of the Company as may be specifically authorized and to the extent authorized by the Chairman in writing so to do, shall have the right to enter into such agreements and to execute such documents as are or become necessary in the ordinary course of the Company's business.
Sec. 6
 
.  Shares of the Company's stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law. 
Sec. 1
Certificates of stock shall be signed by the Chairman and by the Secretary.  Facsimiles of the signatures of any one or all of the officers designated to sign certificates of stock of this Company may be used in lieu of manual signatures, provided each certificate bearing facsimile signatures of the officers is countersigned by a transfer agent appointed by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
 
.  Transfers of stock shall be recorded on the books of the Company either in person or by legal representative  and, in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate.  In case any certificate be lost, stolen or destroyed, the Board of Directors may order a new certificate or uncertificated shares be issued in its place upon receiving satisfactory proof of its loss and such security as it deems proper.  On surrender of any outstanding certificate, it shall be at once cancelled.
Sec. 2
 
.  For the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date
Sec. 3
of such action and may cause the stock transfer books to be closed for a stated period but not to exceed, in any case, sixty (60) days.
 
.  The Board of Directors shall designate at what place the books of the Company shall be kept.
Sec. 1
 
.  The Board of Directors may appoint from among their number, but only by vote of a majority of their entire number, an Executive Committee of not less than three nor more than five members which shall have all the power of the Board of Directors when the Board of Directors shall not be in session; except the Executive Committee shall not have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation; recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or revocation of a dissolution, amending the Bylaws of the Corporation, or, unless authorized by resolution of the
Sec. 1
Board of Directors, declaring a dividend or authorizing the issuance of stock.  The Board of Directors shall fill vacancies in the Executive Committee from the Directors.  All action by the Executive Committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its meeting next succeeding such action.  The Executive Committee shall determine its manner of proceeding.  It may act without being formally convened and the affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the Executive Committee present when three or more are present or a unanimous vote of two when two are present shall be necessary to its adoption of any resolution or approval of any action.
 
.  For purposes of accounting and for all other purposes, the fiscal and tax year of this Company shall run from January 1st to December 31st in each year.
Sec. 1


