FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20060619113050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On June 13, 2006, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors elected Charles R. Williamson to the Board of Directors, effective July 1, 2006. Mr. Williamson will join the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. There are no reportable transactions under Item 404 (a) of Regulation S-K. A copy of the press release announcing the election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
99.1
Exhibit
Charles R. Williamson Named to PACCAR Board
 Mr. Charles R. Williamson has been named to PACCAR Inc's Board of Directors, effective July 1, 2006, according to Mark C. Pigott, PACCAR chairman and chief executive officer.
June 16, 2006, Bellevue, Washington
Charles R. Williamson was chairman and chief executive officer of Unocal, the California-based energy company, from 2001 until Unocal merged with Chevron in August 2005. He served as a director of Unocal from 2000 to 2005. During his excellent 28-year career with Unocal, he served in a variety of technical and management positions around the world including positions in the United Kingdom, Thailand and the Netherlands. Mr. Williamson was the chairman of the US-ASEAN Business Council from 2002-2005. He earned a Ph.D in geology from the University of Texas. He is a director of the Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE:WY) and Talisman Energy Inc. (NYSE:TLM).
"PACCAR is very pleased that Mr. Williamson will be joining the Board. His thorough understanding of the Asian marketplace and his background in operations provide a strong perspective that will benefit PACCAR in its global growth," said Mark Pigott.
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. It also provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage can be found at .
www.paccar.com


