FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20090617170252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 15, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing environmental achievements and commenting on market conditions. The announcement, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
This Report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 PACCAR's Kenworth Truck Company was recently honored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with the prestigious Clean Air Excellence Award. Kenworth is the first commercial vehicle manufacturer to receive this accolade since inception of the award in 2000. The EPA recognized Kenworth's outstanding innovative efforts and progress in developing advanced environmentally friendly vehicles.
June 15, 2009, Bellevue, Washington
Other examples of PACCAR's industry-leading environmental leadership include:
 
 
"The general economy continues to struggle. Reasonable freight tonnage is being offset by challenging economic conditions resulting from depressed residential and commercial real estate construction, lower auto production, reduced capital spending by most industrial businesses and weak retailer sales," said Tom Plimpton, PACCAR vice chairman. "Second quarter industry truck production in North America and Europe is estimated to be 5-10 percent lower than the first quarter with negative pressure on margins. PACCAR's second quarter truck production reflects the lower industry output and the company's truck segment gross margin will be lower than the first quarter. PACCAR continues to rigorously reduce operating expenses to align our business with the current market." Plimpton added, "There is some encouraging news as national trucking companies are beginning to recognize the benefits of purchasing new trucks later this year as their current vehicles' maintenance costs increase due to the aging of their fleets."
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. It also provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business. PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage is .
www.paccar.com


