FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20090317122510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 16, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing new technology centers and commenting on market conditions. The announcement, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
This Report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors. More information about these factors is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 PACCAR recently launched innovative product and technology centers at its Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF manufacturing facilities. These interactive showplaces demonstrate PACCAR's extensive leading-edge technology innovations, as well as its range of engines, customer services and the full suite of PACCAR vehicles. "The new PACCAR Technology Centers include interactive platforms featuring exciting surface technology, product demonstrations and the latest concepts for in-dash and in-cab electronic applications," said Jim Cardillo, president. "PACCAR Financial, PacLease, PACCAR Parts, PACCAR Winch and Dynacraft displays illustrate the applied technology developed by each division to generate operational benefits for our customers. These new Centers provide tremendous insight into PACCAR's technology and quality leadership, as well as PACCAR's ongoing investment in new product and service innovation."
March 16, 2009, Bellevue, Washington
"The challenging recession continues to impact our customers in North America and Europe," said Tom Plimpton, vice chairman. "We have implemented build rate reductions and temporary plant shutdowns in the first quarter of 2009 to balance lower market demand. Truck segment gross revenues are expected to be approximately 30 percent lower this quarter, compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. The lower build rates and margins are expected to continue until freight improves and the general economy begins to recover. PACCAR is rigorously reducing operating expenses and capital expenditures to align our business with the current market."
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. It also provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business. PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage is .
www.paccar.com


