FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20110901204342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 31, 2011, PACCAR Inc issued a press release concerning the selection of a site for construction of a new DAF truck assembly facility in Ponta Grossa in the State of Paran, Brazil.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 PACCAR announced plans to construct its new DAF Brasil assembly facility on a 500-acre site in the city of Ponta Grossa in the state of Paran. "PACCAR is pleased to invest $200 million in its DAF facility in the dynamic and progressive state of Paran," commented Mark Pigott, chairman and chief executive officer. "Ponta Grossa has an excellent workforce and proximity to strategic supplier partners and the port of Paranagu. We appreciate the outstanding support from the state of Paran and the city of Ponta Grossa in partnering with PACCAR to bring this major economic investment to the area," said Pigott.
August 31, 2011, Bellevue, Washington
Construction of the 330,000-square-foot assembly facility is projected to begin in 2011 and be completed in 2013. The new facility will be designed to assemble the DAF LF, CF and XF models, to meet current and future requirements of the Brasilian transport industry. "This will be one of PACCAR's most technologically advanced and environmentally friendly facilities," shared Bob Christensen, executive vice president. The Brasil truck market over six tons is 170,000 units and is expected to grow in the coming years. "Over time, as production levels increase, the facility is expected to hire up to five hundred employees. Additional employment opportunities, which will generate economic benefits to the region, will be created during the construction phase and as our suppliers expand their capacity in the area," added Christensen.
"The commitment to construct the DAF assembly facility in Brasil marks a strategic milestone and we are pleased to be working closely with the state and local agencies on the planning of the infrastructure for the business," stated Richard Bangert, PACCAR vice president. "PACCAR has an excellent record of community involvement at all of the company's major manufacturing locations. We look forward to developing close relationships with Ponta Grossa State University, Paran Federal Technology University and other technical colleges to provide ongoing educational opportunities for our employees," added Bangert.
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high quality light-, medium-, and heavy-duty trucks under the DAF, Kenworth, and Peterbilt nameplates. PACCAR also designs and manufactures advanced diesel engines and provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
PACCAR shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, symbol PCAR. Its homepage is .
www.paccar.com


