FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20120529131313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 25, 2012, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors elected Luiz Kaufmann to the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors effective July 1, 2012.
Mr. Kaufmann will serve as a Class III director. The information required by Item 5.02(d)(3) is not available at this time. There are no reportable transactions under Item 404 (a) of Regulation S-K. He will receive compensation for his services in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors described in the Company's March 14, 2012 proxy statement. These arrangements include an annual cash retainer of $75,000 and an annual restricted stock award of $100,000 both prorated for 2012; Board meeting fees of $7,500 per meeting and Committee meeting fees of $5,000 per meeting. A press release announcing the Board action is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Mr. Luiz Kaufmann has been elected to the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors, effective July 1, 2012, according to Mark C. Pigott, PACCAR chairman and chief executive officer. "PACCAR is very pleased that Mr. Kaufmann will be joining the Board," said Mark Pigott. "His decades of management experience in Brasil will provide a valuable perspective to PACCAR as we expand in this important market."
May 29, 2012, Bellevue, Washington
Mr. Kaufmann is the managing partner of L. Kaufmann Consultants in Sao Paulo, Brasil. His Brazilian company provides investment banking services and operational leadership in mergers and acquisitions. He served as president and CEO of Medial Saude, a Brazilian health care company, from 2006-2008 and as a director from 2001-2006. During his 40-year professional career, he held CEO positions at several Brazilian companies including Aracruz Celulose, the largest eucalyptus pulp producer in the world, from 2003-2008, and Grupo Multiplic, a diversified financial group, and also served as the managing director of Arthur D. Little in Brasil. He has served as a director of GOL, a Brazilian airline, since 2004 and previously served as a director of several Brazilian companies including Vivo, the largest mobile telecom company in Brasil (2005-2009). He has an engineering degree from the Federal University of Paran and a master's degree in industrial engineering from the Illinois Institute of Technology.
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. PACCAR also designs and manufactures advanced diesel engines and provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage can be found at.
www.paccar.com


