FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20120104182905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 3, 2012, the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors named Mark A. Schulz to the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors effective April 23, 2012.
Mr. Schulz will serve as a Class I director to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Stephen F. Page. The information required by Item 5.02(d)(3) is not available at this time. There are no reportable transactions under Item 404 (a) of Regulation S-K. He will receive compensation for his services in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors described in the Company's March 10, 2011 proxy statement. These arrangements include an annual cash retainer of $75,000 and an annual restricted stock award of $100,000 both prorated for 2012; Board meeting fees of $7,500 per meeting; and Committee meeting fees of $5,000 per meeting. A press release announcing the Board action is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Mr. Mark A. Schulz has been elected to the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors, effective April 23, 2012, according to Mark Pigott, PACCAR chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Schulz will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Stephen F. Page from the Board on the same day.
January 3, 2012, Bellevue, Washington
Mr. Schulz, 59, served as President of International Operations at Ford Motor Company from 2005 until his retirement in 2007. During his 32-year tenure at Ford, he served in senior executive positions with responsibility for operations in the Middle East, Asia and South America. He is currently chief executive officer of M. A. Schulz and Associates, LLC, a management consulting firm, and a founding partner in Fontinalis Partners, LLC, a transportation technology strategic investment firm. He has engineering degrees from Valparaiso University and the University of Michigan, an MBA from the University of Detroit, and an MS in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He serves as a director of Dana Holdings Corporation, and previously served as director of the National Committee of United States-China Relations and the United States-China Business Council.
"PACCAR is very pleased that Mr. Schulz will be joining the Board. His 30 years of international management experience in vehicle manufacturing provides a strong perspective that will benefit PACCAR in its global growth," said Mark Pigott.
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. PACCAR also designs and manufactures advanced diesel engines and provides financial services and information technology and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
PACCAR shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select market, symbol PCAR, and its homepage is .
www.paccar.com


