FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20120427125803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Item 502(f). On April 23, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the PACCAR Inc Board of Directors approved a Long Term Performance Cash Award ("LTIP Cash Award") for the 2009-2011 cycle under the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan for the Named Executive Officers identified in the Company's March 14, 2012 proxy statement. The total compensation for each Named Executive Officer reported in the Summary Compensation Table on page 22 of the Company's 2012 proxy statement has been recalculated to include the LTIP Cash Award as follows:
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a) The annual meeting of stockholders was held on April 24, 2012.
(b) Following is a brief description and vote count of all items voted on at the annual meeting:
Item 1. Election of Directors. The following persons were elected to serve as Class II directors with a term expiring in 2015:
 
Item No. 2: Stockholder Proposal Regarding a Director Vote Threshold.
Item No. 2 was approved with Board support and the following vote:
 
Item No. 3: Stockholder Proposal Regarding The Supermajority Vote Provisions.
Item No. 3 was not approved with the following vote:
 
Item No. 4: Stockholder Proposal Regarding the Annual Election of All Directors.
Item No. 4 was not approved with the following vote:
 
(c) Not applicable.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


