FILE:PCAR/PCAR-8K-20121210144956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 502(c). On December 4, 2012 the Board of Directors elected Robert J. Christensen, 56, as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, effective January 1, 2013. Mr. Christensen has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since August 2010; Senior Vice President from November 2008 to July 2010; and Vice President and General Manager of Kenworth Truck Co. from July 2002 to October 2008. He earned a degree in finance from the University of Washington, an M.B.A. from the University of Puget Sound and is a certified public accountant. Mr. Christensen will succeed Mr. Ronald E. Armstrong, President, as the Company's principal financial officer.
Item 502(b). Ronald E. Armstrong, current principal financial officer, will continue to serve as President.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 The PACCAR Board of Directors elected Robert J. Christensen to the position of PACCAR chief financial officer and executive vice president, effective January 1, 2013. Mr. Christensen has 29 years with PACCAR and his most recent responsibility was as executive vice president. He joined PACCAR in 1983 and has had senior management roles with PACCAR Parts, Kenworth and Peterbilt. He earned degrees from the University of Washington (B.A.-Finance), University of Puget Sound (M.B.A.) and is a CPA.
December 10, 2012, Bellevue, Washington
PACCAR is a global technology leader in the design, manufacture and customer support of high-quality light-, medium-, and heavy-duty trucks under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. PACCAR also designs and manufactures advanced diesel engines, provides financial services and information technology, and distributes truck parts related to its principal business.
PACCAR shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, symbol PCAR. Its homepage is .
www.paccar.com


