FILE:HON/HON-8K-20041213160306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(973) 455-2000                                                                                          
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 13, 2004, Honeywell International Inc. announced that it has reached agreement with the board of directors of Novar plc on the terms of recommended offers for the entire issued ordinary and preference share capital of Novar. The offers will be made on the basis of 185 pence per Novar ordinary share and 103.625 pence per Novar convertible preference share. In addition, holders of Novar ordinary shares will be entitled to retain a final 2004 dividend of 6.6 pence per share. The aggregate value of the offers is 1.2 billion (US$2.4 billion) fully diluted for the exercise of all outstanding options, plus the assumption of approximately 300 million (US$580 million) of outstanding debt. The Novar Board has confirmed its intention to unanimously recommend the offers. A copy of the press release issued by Honeywell on December 13, 2004 is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. A description of the conditions to the offers are set out in Exhibit 99.2 and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
The offers will not be made in certain jurisdictions, including the United States.
Honeywell expects to fund the acquisition with existing cash resources. Honeywell has also received a commitment letter from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. to provide an interim facility in an amount of up to 1.2 billion that could be used to make payments under the offers and refinance indebtedness of Novar.
This announcement by Honeywell does not constitute the making of an offer to acquire any securities of Novar plc. No offer is being, or will be, made in the United States or to U.S. persons. In addition, this release does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale in the United States or to U.S. persons. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an exemption from registration. Honeywell does not intend to register or offer its securities in the United States or to U.S. persons, or otherwise conduct the offers in the United States.
Section 2  Financial Information
.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
As described above in Item 1.01, on December 9, 2004, Honeywell received a commitment letter from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. to provide an interim facility in an amount of up to 1.2 billion that could be used to make payments under the offers described above and to refinance indebtedness of Novar. A copy of the commitment letter is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
Not applicable.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
Not applicable.
(c) Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 13, 2004

   
EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
 Honeywell (NYSE: HON) today announced that it has reached agreement with the board of directors of Novar plc on the terms of recommended Offers for the entire issued ordinary and preference share capital of Novar.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., December 13, 2004
The Offers will be made on the basis of 185 pence per Novar ordinary share and 103.625 pence per Novar convertible preference share. In addition, holders of Novar ordinary shares will be entitled to retain a final 2004 dividend of 6.6 pence per share. The aggregate value of the Offers is 1.2 billion (US $2.4 billion) fully diluted for the exercise of all outstanding options, including the assumption of approximately 300 million (US $580 million) of outstanding debt, net of cash. The Novar board has unanimously recommended the Offers.
The Offers will not be made in certain jurisdictions, including the United States.
Honeywell expects to fund the acquisition with existing cash resources and credit facilities. The acquisition is expected to have an accretive impact on Honeywell's 2005 earnings per share.
Novar plc, with reported 2003 revenue of 1.43 billion (US$2.7 billion) is an international group whose core divisions are Intelligent Building Systems (IBS), Indalex Aluminum Solutions, and Security Printing Services. Novar's IBS unit will enhance Honeywell's offering of security, fire and building controls products and services, particularly in the UK and Germany and support its strategy of global growth of these businesses. Honeywell does not intend to hold Indalex Aluminum Solutions and Security Printing Services in the long-term and expects to pursue strategic alternatives for these units as soon as practical.
"This acquisition is an excellent opportunity to further expand our Automation and Control Solutions business," said David M. Cote, Honeywell Chairman and CEO. "Honeywell has a long heritage in providing premier integrated security, fire and building controls products and services. We see great opportunities in this business, and the integration of Novar's highly complementary products, services and expertise clearly enhance those prospects. Novar has a great heritage built on a competitive product offering, a talented workforce
Honeywell Offers to Acquire Novar
Page 2
and a management team dedicated to delivering value to their customers. Adding these assets to Honeywell's already strong global technology platforms will deliver benefits for customers and expanded opportunities for employees of both companies. We look forward to working with Novar's management team to realize the benefits of this combination."
Honeywell intends to integrate Novar's IBS unit, which had 2003 revenue of 603.9 million (US$1.2 billion) into its Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) division. Honeywell ACS is an approximately $8.0 billion business with more than 40,000 employees worldwide.  Honeywell expects that Novar's IBS assets, its technology, business presence, customers and employees will contribute to the growth of its ACS division going forward. 
Cote continued, "I am pleased that Novar's board has recommended our all-cash offer for Novar's ordinary and preference shares, which is expected to result in earnings accretion for Honeywell in 2005 and will deliver significant long-term value to our investors. We believe we can achieve more than US$100 million annually in synergies. Our integration team will work quickly and diligently to complete the transaction, and we look forward to smoothly integrating Novar's IBS business into our ACS operations."
Honeywell expects to complete the acquisition in the first quarter of 2005.
Further information is available on .
www.honeywell.com
Honeywell is a $25 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit .
About Honeywell
www.honeywell.com
Novar, a UK listed holding company, operates internationally in three different businesses:
About Novar plc
Novar Intelligent Building Systems (IBS) is a global business supplying electrical, electronic and control products and services to building operators, contractors and developers worldwide. Indalex Aluminum Solutions is one of the world's largest aluminum extrusion companies with a comprehensive network of plants across North America. The Security Printing Services division operates a security printing business which handles more than 55 million check orders a year and more than 17 million customer and partner contacts annually on behalf of financial institutions in the United States.
All references to US dollars herein use a GBP conversion rate of 1.94.
Honeywell Offers to Acquire Novar
Page 3
This release does not constitute the making of an offer to acquire any securities of Novar plc. No offer is being, or will be, made in the United States or to U.S. persons. In addition, this release does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale in the United States or to U.S. persons. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an exemption from registration. The company does not intend to register or offer its securities in the United States or to U.S. persons, or otherwise conduct the Offers in the United States.
The statement that the transaction will offer earnings accretion in 2005 should not be taken to mean that Novar's earnings per share in 2005 or subsequent periods will be greater or less than that of prior periods.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding Honeywell's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties.

Exhibit 99.2
The Offers, which will be made by JPMorgan on behalf of the Offeror, will comply with the applicable rules of the Code, will be governed by English law and will be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of England. In addition, the Offers will be subject to the terms and conditions to be set out in the Offer Document and related Form of Acceptance.
1. Conditions of the Ordinary Offer
The Ordinary Offer will be conditional upon:
For the purposes of these conditions:
Subject to the requirements of the Panel, Honeywell reserves the right to waive all or any of the above conditions, in whole or in part, except condition (i). The Ordinary Offer will lapse if it does not become or is not declared unconditional as to acceptances. Further, the Offers will lapse unless conditions (ii) to (xi) have been fulfilled or (if capable of waiver) waived, or, where appropriate, have been determined by Honeywell to be or remain satisfied, by midnight on the day which is 21 days after the date on which the Ordinary Offer becomes or is declared unconditional as to acceptances, or such later date as Honeywell may, with the consent of the Panel, decide, provided that Honeywell shall be under no obligation to waive or treat as fulfilled any of conditions (ii) to (xi) inclusive by a date earlier than the latest date specified above for the fulfilment thereof notwithstanding that any such condition or the other conditions of the Offers may at such earlier date have been fulfilled and that there are at such earlier date no circumstances indicating that any of such conditions may not be capable of fulfilment.
Honeywell has agreed with Novar to treat any commitments required to secure an Article 6(1)(b) ECMR decision as reasonably satisfactory to Honeywell provided such commitments are not material in the context of the value of the Novar IBS business taken as a whole.
The Offers will lapse (unless otherwise agreed by the Panel) if the European Commission either initiates proceedings under Article 6(1)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004, or makes a referral to a competent national authority under Article 9(1) thereof and, having done so, the UK Competition Commission initiates an in-depth investigation in relation to the acquisition of Novar, before the later of 3.00 pm (London time) on the first closing date of the Ordinary Offer and the date on which the Ordinary Offer becomes or is declared unconditional as to acceptances.
If the Offers lapse they will cease to be capable of further acceptance and Honeywell and accepting Novar Shareholders shall thereupon cease to be bound by forms of acceptance submitted at or before the time when the Offers so lapse.
If Honeywell is required by the Panel to make an offer for Novar Ordinary Shares under the provisions of Rule 9 of the Code, Honeywell may make such alterations to the terms and conditions of the Offers as are necessary to comply with the provisions of that Rule.
2. Conditions of the Preference Offer
The Preference Offer will be subject only to the Ordinary Offer becoming or being declared unconditional in all respects.
3. Certain further terms of the Offers
The Novar Shares which are subject to the Offers will be acquired by Honeywell fully paid, with full title guarantee and free from all liens, charges, equitable interests, encumbrances, rights of pre-emption and other third party rights or interests of any nature whatsoever and together with all rights now or hereafter attached thereto including, without limitation, the right to receive and retain any dividend and other distribution, announced, declared, made or paid on or after the date of this announcement save for the proposed second interim dividend of 6.60 pence per Novar Ordinary Share, to be paid in lieu of a final dividend for the year ending December 31, 2004 if the Offers become or are declared unconditional in all respects.
The availability of the Offers to persons not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdictions. Persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom should inform themselves about and observe any applicable requirements.
The following definitions apply throughout this announcement, unless the context otherwise requires:

EXHIBIT 99.3
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
270 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
December 9, 2004
Honeywell International Inc.
101 Columbia Road
Morris Township, NJ 07962
 
Project Richie
Senior Unsecured Interim Facility
Commitment Letter
Ladies and Gentlemen:
You have advised JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("
JPMCB
") and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("
JPMorgan
" and, together with JPMCB, "
we
" or "
us
") that Honeywell International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
" or "
you
"), intends to make an offer to acquire (the "
Acquisition
") all the outstanding ordinary and convertible preference shares of Novar plc, a company organized under the laws of England (the "
Acquired Company
"). You have further advised us that you may obtain all or a portion of the funds required to complete the Acquisition and to pay related fees and expenses through the establishment of a senior unsecured interim credit facility in a principal amount of up to 1,200,000,000 (the "
Interim Facility
"). It is contemplated that the terms of the Interim Facility will be as set forth in the Summary of Principal Terms and Conditions attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "
Term Sheet
").
In connection with the foregoing, JPMCB is pleased to advise you of its commitment to provide the entire principal amount of the Interim Facility, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth or referred to in this Commitment Letter and the Term Sheet.
You hereby appoint JPMorgan, and JPMorgan hereby agrees to act, as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner for the Interim Facility. You hereby appoint JPMCB, and JPMCB hereby agrees to act, as sole administrative agent for the Interim Facility. You agree that no other agents, co-agents, arrangers, co-arrangers, bookrunners, managers or co-managers will be appointed, no other titles will be awarded and no compensation (other than compensation referred to in the Term Sheet) will be paid in connection with the Interim Facility unless you and we shall so agree.
 
2
JPMCB reserves the right, prior to or after the execution of definitive documentation for the Interim Facility, to syndicate all or a portion of its commitment hereunder to one or more financial institutions that will become parties to such definitive documentation pursuant to a syndication to be managed by JPMorgan (JPMCB and the other financial institutions becoming parties to such definitive documentation being collectively referred to as the "
Lenders
").
You agree actively to assist JPMorgan in completing a satisfactory syndication of the Interim Facility. Such assistance shall include (a) your using commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the syndication efforts benefit from your existing relationships with financial institutions, (b) direct contact between your senior management and advisors and the proposed Lenders, (c) assistance in the preparation of a Confidential Information Memorandum for the Interim Facility and other marketing materials to be used in connection with the syndication of the Interim Facility and (d) the hosting, with JPMorgan, of one or more meetings of prospective Lenders.
JPMorgan, in consultation with you, will manage all aspects of the syndication of the Interim Facility, including decisions as to the selection of institutions to be approached and when they will be approached, when their commitments will be accepted, which institutions will participate, the allocations of the commitments among the Lenders and the amount and distribution of fees among the Lenders. To assist JPMorgan in the syndication efforts, you agree promptly to prepare and provide to us all information with respect to the Company, the Acquisition, the Acquired Company and the other transactions contemplated hereby, including all financial information, as we may reasonably request in connection with the arrangement and syndication of the Interim Facility.
You hereby represent and covenant (and it shall be a condition to the commitment of JPMCB hereunder and the agreement of JPMorgan to perform the services described herein) that (a) all written information (except any projected financial information) regarding the Company and its subsidiaries or, to the best of your knowledge, regarding the Acquired Company and its subsidiaries that has been or will be made available to us by you or any of your representatives is or will be, when furnished and taken as a whole, complete and correct in all material respects and does not or will not, when furnished, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements are made and (b) all projected financial information, if any, that has been or will be made available to us by you or any of your representatives has been and will be prepared in good faith based upon reasonable assumptions. You understand that, in arranging the Interim Facility, we will be using and relying on such information without independent verification thereof.
The commitment of JPMCB hereunder and the agreement of JPMorgan to perform the services described herein are subject to (a) the negotiation, execution and delivery of definitive credit documentation with respect to the Interim Facility satisfactory to JPMCB, (b) our satisfaction that prior to and during the syndication of the Interim Facility there shall be no concurrent or pending bank financings or offerings or
 
3
placements of debt securities (other than any commercial paper issuances) by or on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries that would be likely to materially and adversely affect the syndication of the Interim Facility, (c) the material terms of the Acquisition and the Offer being reasonably satisfactory to us (it being understood that a minimum tender condition set at a majority or more of the aggregate ordinary voting power of the Acquired Company is reasonably satisfactory to us) and (d) the other conditions set forth or referred to in the Term Sheet.
You agree (a) to indemnify and hold harmless each of us and our affiliates, and the officers, directors, employees, affiliates, advisors and agents of each of the foregoing (each, an "
indemnified person
"), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, joint or several, to which any such indemnified person may become subject arising out of or in connection with this Commitment Letter, the Interim Facility, the actual or proposed use of the proceeds thereof, the Acquisition or any related transaction or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, regardless of whether any indemnified person is a party thereto, and to reimburse each indemnified person upon demand for any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating or defending any of the foregoing,
provided
that the foregoing indemnity will not, as to any indemnified person, apply to losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses to the extent they have resulted from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such indemnified person, and (b) to reimburse each of us and each of our affiliates on demand for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including syndication expenses and reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel) incurred in connection with the Interim Facility and any related documentation (including this Commitment Letter and the definitive financing documentation), whether or not the transactions contemplated herein are completed. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Commitment Letter, no indemnified person shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of Information or other materials obtained through electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission systems or for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages in connection with the Interim Facility.
You acknowledge that each of us and our affiliates may be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services (including financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have conflicting interests regarding the transactions described herein and otherwise. Each of us agrees that it will not use confidential information obtained from you by virtue of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter or its other relationships with you in connection with the performance by it of services for other companies, or furnish any such confidential information to other companies or customers. You also acknowledge that neither of us has any obligation to use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained by it from other companies.
This Commitment Letter and JPMCB's commitment hereunder shall not be assignable by you without our prior written consent (and any purported assignment without such consent shall be null and void), are intended to be solely for the benefit of
 
4
the parties hereto and the indemnified persons, and are not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any rights in favor of, any person other than the parties hereto and the indemnified persons. Any and all obligations of, and services to be provided by, any of us may be performed, and any and all rights of any of us hereunder may be exercised, by or through our affiliates. This Commitment Letter may not be amended or waived except by an instrument in writing signed by us and you. This Commitment Letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. This Commitment Letter is the sole agreement that has been entered into among the parties hereto with respect to the Interim Facility and sets forth the entire understanding among the parties hereto with respect thereto. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. This Commitment Letter shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
You irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or Federal court sitting in the City of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Commitment Letter, any transaction contemplated hereby or the performance of services hereunder. You hereby agree that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail addressed to you shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court. You irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum. You agree that a final judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon you and may be enforced in any other courts to whose jurisdiction you are or may be subject, by suit upon judgment. Each party hereto irrevocably agrees to waive trial by jury in any suit, action, proceeding, claim or counterclaim brought by or on behalf of any party related to or arising out of this Commitment Letter, the transactions contemplated hereby or the performance of services hereunder.
This Commitment Letter is delivered to you on the understanding that none of this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet or any of their terms or substance shall be disclosed, directly or indirectly, to any other person except (a) to your officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors who are directly involved in the consideration of the Acquisition and the other Transactions on a confidential basis or (b) as may be compelled in a judicial or administrative proceeding or as otherwise required by law (in which case you agree to inform us promptly thereof);
provided
that, following your acceptance of this Commitment Letter, you may disclose this Commitment Letter and the Term Sheet and their terms and substance (i) to the Acquired Company and its officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors and (ii) to the extent necessary, in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
JPMCB hereby notifies you that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "
Patriot Act
"), it and each of the Lenders may be required to obtain, verify and record information
 
5
that identifies you and the Borrower, which information may include your and the Borrower's name, address and other information that will allow you and the Borrower to be identified in accordance with the Patriot Act. This notice is given in accordance with the requirements of the Patriot Act and is effective for each of JPMorgan, JPMCB and the other Lenders.
The reimbursement, indemnification and confidentiality provisions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect regardless of whether definitive financing documentation with respect to the Interim Facility shall be executed and delivered and notwithstanding the termination of this Commitment Letter or JPMCB's commitment hereunder.
If the foregoing correctly sets forth our agreement, please indicate your acceptance of the terms hereof and of the Term Sheet by returning to us executed counterparts hereof not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on December 31, 2004, failing which JPMCB's commitment hereunder and JPMorgan's agreements contained herein will expire at such time. In the event that the initial borrowing in respect of the Interim Facility does not occur on or before April 29, 2005, then this Commitment Letter and the commitment hereunder shall automatically terminate unless each of us shall agree to an extension.
 
6
We are pleased to have been given the opportunity to assist you in connection with this important financing.
 
 
Accepted and agreed to
as of the date first written above by:
 
 
 
Project Richie
Senior Unsecured Interim Facility
Summary of Principal Terms and Conditions
 
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
ANNEX I
 
 
2
 
3
FEE AND SPREAD TABLE
 
In the event of split Ratings, the Category corresponding to the higher of the two Ratings shall apply unless the Ratings differ by more than one Category, in which case the Category next above that corresponding to the lower of the two Ratings shall apply.


