FILE:HON/HON-8K-20050420073456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
8
FORM
-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT  April 20, 2005
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
HONEYWELL
INTERNATIONAL
INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02  
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its first quarter 2005 earnings release conference call on Wednesday, April 20
th
at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on BusinessWire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
 
Honeywell International Inc. issued its first quarter 2005 earnings release on April 20th, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99
 
Contacts:
 
 
HONEYWELL'S FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE 42 CENTS, UP 24% VERSUS PRIOR YEAR ON SALES OF $6.5 BILLION
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 20, 2005 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced first-quarter earnings per share of 42 cents, an increase of 8 cents or 24% over the prior year. Sales of $6.5 billion were up 4% on a reported basis, reflecting 6% organic sales growth offset by the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Net income was $359 million for the quarter, up from $295 million last year. Cash flow from operations was $329 million and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $194 million.
"We are very pleased with first-quarter results," said Dave Cote, Honeywell Chairman and CEO. "This is a terrific start to the year. Organic growth and strong operational execution contributed to better than expected performance in the quarter. In addition, we completed the Novar acquisition, and are well on the way to successfully integrating Novar's IBS business into Honeywell. We are excited about the fit of IBS into our core fire, environmental controls, security and services businesses, and the overall market and distribution opportunities it brings to Honeywell."
"Each of the operating segments contributed to our strong first-quarter performance," continued Cote. "Aerospace had an outstanding quarter, supported by increased OE deliveries, aftermarket growth and continued growth in demand for defense products and services. Automation and Control Solutions experienced strong sales growth in the Security and Life Safety products businesses. In Transportation Systems, continued growth in European turbo sales and increased Class 8 heavy duty truck builds in the U.S. drove sales growth. While Specialty Materials sales grew 5% organically, primarily from flourines demand and pricing actions, that was more than offset by the impact of the Performance Fibers divestiture resulting in a total 6% decline in reported sales."
 
 
 
- MORE -
 
2 - results
 
 
First-Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
 
 
 
Automation and Control Solutions
 
 
 
Transportation Systems
 
 
 
 
- MORE -
 
3 - results
 
 
 
Specialty Materials
   
 
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's Investor Conference Call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Investors can access a replay of the webcast starting at 11:00 a.m., April 20, until 5:00 p.m., April 27, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 5244264.
 
Honeywell International is a $26 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
 
 
# # #
 
 
4 - results
5 - results
 
6 - results
7 - results
 
 
 
8 - results
 


