FILE:HON/HON-8K-20051019072734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
F
ORM
8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT October 19, 2005
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its third quarter 2005 earnings release conference call on Wednesday, October 19 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on BusinessWire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
th
 
Honeywell International Inc. issued its third quarter 2005 earnings release on October 19th, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
HONEYWELL THIRD QUARTER SALES UP 8% TO $6.9 BILLION; EARNINGS UP 28% TO 55 CENTS PER SHARE
 
Company Realizes 5% Organic Growth and a Full Point of Margin Expansion
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., October 19, 2005 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced an 8% increase in third quarter sales to $6.9 billion compared to $6.4 billion in 2004. The company reported earnings of 55 cents per share in the third quarter, an increase of 28 percent versus 43 cents per share in the third quarter of 2004. Net income was $470 million for the quarter compared with $372 million last year. Cash flow from operations was $705 million and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $543 million.
"This was another strong quarter for Honeywell, highlighted by 5% organic growth and a full point of margin expansion," said Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "We continued to make significant progress in positioning the business for growth. We announced our intent to acquire the remaining 50 percent interest in our UOP joint venture, a leading technology provider to the petroleum refining, petrochemical and gas processing industries. In addition, we are divesting our non-core U.S. nylon carpet fiber operations. Both transactions are expected to close in the fourth quarter and will substantially complete the portfolio transformation of our Specialty Materials business. We also reached a definitive agreement to sell Indalex Aluminum Solutions, one of the two non-core Novar businesses, at terms that are in line with prior expectations."
The company also updated its previously announced 2005 financial guidance. Sales for the full year are anticipated to be up 8% to approximately $27.6 billion and free cash flow is expected to be $1.7  $1.8 billion (cash flow from operations of $2.5 - $2.6 billion). Earnings per share (excluding the tax charge associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings related to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004) is expected to be $2.11 - $2.13 ($1.93 - $1.95 per share on a reported basis), up 30% on a reported basis.
 
- MORE -
 
Results - 2
 
 
Third Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
 
 
Automation and Control Solutions
 
 
 
Transportation Systems
 
 
 
- MORE -
 
Results - 3
 
 
 
Specialty Materials
 
 
 
During the quarter the company recognized a pre-tax charge of $110 million for repositioning, environmental, litigation, and other matters, which is net of a favorable $67 million arbitration ruling.
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Investors can access a replay of the webcast starting at 11:00 a.m. EST, October 19, until 5:00 p.m. EST, October 26, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 9943619.
Honeywell International is a $26 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
 
 
# # #
 
 
Results-4
Honeywell International Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
(In millions except per share amounts)
 
 
-MORE-
Results-5
Honeywell International Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
(In millions except per share amounts)
 
 
-MORE-
Results-6
Honeywell International Inc.
Segment Data (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
(A) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
-
-MORE
Results-7
Honeywell International Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
-MORE-
Results-8
Honeywell International Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
-MORE-
Results-9
Honeywell International Inc.
Reconciliation of Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
 


