FILE:HON/HON-8K-20060126160552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 24, 2006
 
Honeywell International Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2006, Honeywell International Inc. ("Honeywell") announced an increased offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of First Technology plc ("First Technology") at a price of 385 pence per share. The aggregate value of the transaction is approximately 406 million (US $718 million), fully diluted for the exercise of all outstanding options and including the assumption of 112 million (US $199 million) of outstanding debt (as of November 30, 2005). The Board of Directors of First Technology has unanimously recommended acceptance of Honeywell's offer.
The offer is not being made in certain jurisdictions, including the United States.
A copy of the press release issued by Honeywell on January 24, 2006 is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A description of the conditions to the offers is set out in Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. Honeywell expects to fund the acquisition with existing cash resources and other facilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HONEYWELL INCREASES OFFER TO ACQUIRE FIRST TECHNOLOGY PLC TO GBP 406 MILLION (US$718 MILLION)
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., January 24, 2006  Honeywell
(NYSE: HON)
today announced that it has increased its all-cash Offer for the entire issued ordinary share capital of First Technology plc
(LSE: FRS)
. The Increased Offer will be made on the basis of 385 pence per First Technology ordinary share. The aggregate value of the Offer is GBP 406 million (US$718 million), fully diluted for the exercise of all outstanding options and including the assumption of approximately GBP 112 million (US$199 million) of outstanding debt (as of November 30, 2005). The Offer is not being made in certain jurisdictions, including the United States.
<R>
Honeywell Chairman and CEO, Dave Cote, said, "The acquisition's strategic value remains compelling to Honeywell at the Increased Offer price in light of the strong fit and realizable cost synergies between our Life Safety division, which includes Zellweger Analytics, a global leader in gas detection, and First Technology's gas sensing and gas detection businesses. Our prior experience successfully integrating acquisitions, such as Zellweger and Novar in 2005, makes us confident we can achieve these cost synergies. Furthermore, the opportunity for sales, channel and distribution synergies between First Technology and our $10 billion Automation and Control Solutions business represents real potential upside to our valuation model."
Honeywell anticipates completing the transaction in the first half of 2006, subject to regulatory review. The transaction will not have any impact on Honeywell's 2006 earnings guidance. The company expects the transaction to be accretive to its 2007 earnings per share.
</R>
All references to U.S. dollars herein use a GBP conversion rate of 1.769.
 
Honeywell International is a $26 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit www.honeywell.com.
 
 
This release does not constitute the making of an offer to acquire any securities of First Technology plc. No offer is being, or will be, made in the United States. In addition, this release does not constitute an offer of any
securities for sale in the United States or to U.S. persons. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an exemption from registration. The company does not intend to register or offer its securities in the United States or to U.S. persons, or otherwise conduct the Offer in the United States.
 
The statement that the transaction will offer earnings accretion in 2007 should not be taken to mean that First Technology's earnings per share in 2007 or any other period will necessarily be greater or less than those of prior periods.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements about future business operations, financial performance and market conditions. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties inherent in business forecasts as further described in our filings under the Securities Exchange Act.
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                   
Exhibit 99.2
 
Appendix I  Conditions, Further Terms of the Offer, Form of Acceptance and Electronic Acceptances
 
PART A: CONDITIONS OF THE OFFER
 
The Offer is conditional upon:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
require amendment to the terms of the Offer or the acquisition or proposed acquisition of any First Technology Shares by the Offeror or by any other member of the Wider Honeywell Group or the acquisition of control of First Technology by the Offeror;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and all applicable waiting and other time periods during which any Third Party could intervene under the laws of any relevant jurisdiction, in respect of the Offer or the acquisition or proposed acquisition of any First Technology Shares or control of First Technology by the Offeror or any other member of the Wider Honeywell Group, having expired, lapsed or been terminated;
 
 
 
 
any extensions of such waiting and other time periods) under any applicable legislation or regulations of any relevant jurisdiction including but not limited to the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 having expired, lapsed or been terminated in each case in respect of the Offer or the acquisition or proposed acquisition of any First Technology Shares or control of First Technology or any other member of the Wider First Technology Group by any member of the Wider Honeywell Group or the carrying on by any member of the Wider First Technology Group of its business, except where the failure to make any such notification or filing, or comply with any such obligation, or the fact that any such period has not expired, lapsed or been terminated, individually or in the aggregate, is not likely to have a materially adverse effect on the Wider Honeywell Group or the Wider First Technology Group, as the case may be, in each case, taken as a whole;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and in any case which is material in the context of the Wider First Technology Group taken as a whole;
 
 
of the directors of First Technology or any other director or senior executive of any member of the Wider First Technology Group;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
case is adverse to the interests of any member of the Wider First Technology Group and is material in the context of the Wider First Technology Group taken as a whole; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of these conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(m)'Companies Act' means the Companies Act 1985, as amended; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the requirements of the Panel, the Offeror reserves the right to waive all or any of the above conditions, in whole or in part, except condition (i). The Offer will lapse if it does not become or is not declared unconditional as to acceptances. Further, the Offer will lapse unless conditions (ii) to (xii) have been fulfilled or (if capable of waiver) waived, or, where appropriate, have been determined by the Offeror to be or remain satisfied, by midnight on the day which is 21 days after the date on which the Offer becomes or is declared unconditional as to acceptances, or such later date as the Offeror may, with the consent of the Panel, decide, provided that the Offeror shall be under no obligation to waive or treat as fulfilled any of conditions (ii) to (xii) inclusive by a date earlier than the latest date specified above for the fulfilment thereof notwithstanding that any such condition or the other conditions of the Offer may at such earlier date have been fulfilled and that there are at such earlier date no circumstances indicating that any of such conditions may not be capable of fulfilment.
 
The Offer will lapse (unless otherwise agreed by the Panel) if a reference is made to the Competition Commission or the European Commission either initiates proceedings under Article 6(1)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004, as amended, or makes a referral to a competent national authority under Article 9(1) thereof and, having done so, the UK Competition Commission initiates an in-depth investigation in relation to the acquisition of First Technology, in any such case before the later of 3.00 pm (London time) on February 6, 2006 and the date on which the Offer becomes or is declared unconditional as to acceptances.
 
If the Offer lapses it will cease to be capable of further acceptance and the Offeror and accepting First Technology Shareholders shall thereupon cease to be bound by Forms of Acceptance submitted at or before the time when the Offer so lapses.
 
If the Offeror is required by the Panel to make an offer for First Technology Shares under the provisions of Rule 9 of the Code, the Offeror may make such alterations to the terms and conditions of the Offer as are necessary to comply with the provisions of that Rule.
 
 
 


