FILE:HON/HON-8K-20070126070927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
--------------------
F
ORM
8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
ITEM 2.02
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
     
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding fourth quarter and full year 2006 earnings on Friday, January 26th at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on BusinessWire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
     
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full year 2006 earnings on January 26, 2007, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
(c) Exhibit 99
SIGNATURE
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

     
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J. -- January 26, 2007 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced full-year 2006 sales increased 13% to $31.4 billion from $27.6 billion in 2005. Earnings per share were up 31% to $2.52 versus $1.92 in the prior year. Earnings per share growth was 30%, after taking into account income from discontinued operations ($0.11) and a tax-charge for cash repatriation in 2005 ($0.18), and stock options expense in 2006 ($0.07) . Cash flow from operations was up 31% to $3.2 billion versus $2.4 billion in 2005, and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was up 41% to $2.5 billion versus $1.8 billion in the prior year.
     
Fourth-quarter sales were up 14% to $8.3 billion. Earnings per share increased 18% to $0.72 versus $0.61 in the prior year fourth quarter. Earnings per share growth was 28%, after taking into account income from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2005 ($0.04), and stock options expense in 2006 ($0.01) . Cash flow from operations was up 48% to $1.2 billion versus $839 million in the prior year, and free cash flow was up 54% to $941 million versus $611 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
     
"Honeywell made great progress in executing its growth strategy in 2006," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "We reached a new financial performance threshold by surpassing $31 billion in sales, delivering 31% EPS growth and increasing free cash flow by 41%. In addition, we returned more than $2.6 billion to shareowners through share repurchases and dividends, and increased the dividend rate by 10% for the third consecutive year."
     
"We expect to build on our successful track record in 2007," continued Cote. "Despite our forecast for modest softening in global economic conditions, we believe that favorable macro-trends and demand for differentiated technologies, products and services provide opportunities for sustained growth at Honeywell. In 2007, we expect sales to be up 5% to approximately $33 billion, double digit earnings growth to $2.85 - 2.95 per share, and we have increased our free cash flow guidance to $2.5 - 2.7 billion (cash flow from operations of $3.3 - 3.5 billion)."
- MORE -
Fourth-Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were up 8%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, driven by 10% growth in
Commercial and 6% growth in Defense and Space sales. Commercial sales reflected growth
of 14% in original equipment and 7% in aftermarket spares and services. Defense and
Space sales were driven by a 9% increase in Defense sales in the quarter.
Segment margins were 18.2%, compared with 16.9% a year ago, driven by volume growth,
price and productivity gains, which more than offset the negative impacts from inflation and
stronger Commercial original equipment sales mix.
Honeywell booked several significant military wins during the quarter including: a two year,
$404 million extension for the Total InteGrated Engine Revitalization (TIGER) program to
improve and extend the life of the AGT1500 turbine engine for the Abrams family of
vehicles; a three year, $39 million agreement to supply Tactical Advanced Land Inertial
Navigator (TALIN) to the U.S. Army; and, a $36 million, three year agreement with
Lockheed Martin and the Turkish and Greek Air Forces for F-16 cockpit displays.
Honeywell signed a $68 million supply contract with Lion Air, a low-cost domestic airline
based in Jakarta, Indonesia, for its fleet of 60 new 737NG aircraft and a five year, $35
million supply agreement with Cathay Pacific Airlines to provide RDR-4000 next-generation weather radar system and other communications and navigation equipment.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 17%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, driven by organic sales
growth of 11% (9% in the Products and 16% in the Solutions businesses) and the net impact
of acquisitions and divestitures of 6%.
Segment margins were 12.6%, compared with 12.4% a year ago, due to volume, price and
productivity savings, which more than offset the negative impacts of inflation, sales mix and
the dilutive impact of acquisitions.
Building Solutions had more than 20% orders growth in the quarter, including more than 40
energy-related contracts, and announced a $9.5 million energy retrofit and facility renewal
program with Toronto East General Hospital. The 15-year program is expected to save the
hospital more than $880,000 in annual operating costs.
Process Solutions had more than 17% orders growth in the quarter and announced several
significant contract wins, including a $4.7 million contract for Italcementi Group's new
production facility in West Virginia; a $3.7 million contract with Huntsman for its new
polyethylene plant in Wilton, UK; a $2.8 million contract with National Grid Grain LNG
Ltd in the UK and a $5 million contract with Harmsworth Quays Printing Ltd in London.
Sensing and Controls announced that in cooperation with Michelin it has developed a
pressure sensor that is a key component in the new Michelin eTire II monitoring system. The sensor incorporates wireless surface acoustic wave (SAW) technology that helps truck
fleet managers accurately monitor tire pressure for improved fuel efficiency and extended
tire life.
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 9%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, due to increased passenger
vehicle Turbo Technologies sales and the positive impact of foreign exchange, partially
offset by the impact of lower consumer spending on automotive aftermarket product sales.
Segment margins were 11.6%, compared with 11.0% a year ago, due to productivity and
volume growth in the Turbo Technologies business, partially offset by inflation and lower
sales of automotive aftermarket products.
Turbo Technologies recorded a greater than 60% win rate on all passenger vehicle platforms
and a greater than 70% win rate on all commercial vehicle platforms awarded worldwide
during 2006. The platforms related to these wins will launch in 2008 and 2009.
Consumer Products Group launched a number of new offerings for do-it-yourself consumers
during the quarter, including a premium light truck FRAM air filter and a high-
performance Autolite sparkplug.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 25%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, driven by the net impact of
acquisitions and divestitures of 24% and organic sales growth of 1%.
Segment margins were 7.3% compared with 7.2% a year ago, due to favorable price and raw
material costs, which offset the impacts of inflation and unfavorable sales mix.
Specialty Materials announced it is tripling its research and development laboratory space in
its Asia Technology Center to boost R&D capabilities and meet increasing customer needs
in Asian markets, particularly China.
During the quarter, UOP signed over $300 million in new orders and established a new
business dedicated to developing innovative technologies for converting renewable bio-feedstocks into fuel and chemicals.
     
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EST. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. EST start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Investors can access a replay of the webcast starting at 11:00 a.m. EST, January 26, until midnight EST, February 2, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 5029474.
Honeywell International is a $31 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
       
           
Honeywell International Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
(In millions except per share amounts)
 
  
         
          
 
   
     
   
       
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


