FILE:HON/HON-8K-20070420071542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b)) [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
     
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding first quarter earnings on Friday, April 20 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on BusinessWire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
     
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2007 earnings on April 20, 2007, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
(c)      Exhibit 99
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

N e w s R e l e a s e
     
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 20, 2007 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced first quarter 2007 sales increased 11% to $8.0 billion from $7.2 billion in 2006, driven by 9% organic sales growth. Earnings were up 27% to $0.66 per share, versus $0.52 per share in the prior year. Cash flow from operations was $578 million versus $239 million in the first quarter of 2006 and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $458 million, compared to $117 million last year. The company repurchased more than 25 million shares of stock in the quarter, reducing its average fully diluted share count to 802 million shares.
     
"Honeywell had a terrific start to 2007 with strong sales, double-digit earnings growth and higher free cash flow," said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. "Our great positions in good industries and global presence helped drive organic growth in each of our businesses. While we are maintaining a conservative view of global growth this year, we are increasing our full-year financial guidance to reflect strong first quarter performance and continued confidence in our businesses for the remainder of 2007."
     
Honeywell is increasing its previously stated 2007 sales guidance by $700 million to $33.5 billion, its earnings per share range by 15 cents to $3.00 - - 3.10 and free cash flow range by $100 million to $2.6 - 2.8 billion (cash flow from operations of $3.4 - 3.6 billion).
Q1 Results - 2
First-Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were up 8%, compared with the first quarter of 2006, driven by 9% growth in
Commercial and 6% growth in Defense and Space sales. Commercial sales reflected
growth of 10% in original equipment and 9% in aftermarket spares and services.
Segment margins were 17.6%, compared with 16.7% a year ago, driven by volume
growth, price and productivity gains, which more than offset the negative impact from
inflation.
Honeywell was selected by the U.S. Army to refurbish medium-sized tactical vehicles in
Kuwait (five and eight ton tankers, cargo vehicles and wreckers) as part of the Theater
Provided Equipment Refurbishment program. The program is expected to generate sales
of up to $125 million over four years.
Honeywell's Military Airborne Collision Avoidance System - Formation Rendezvous
(MILACAS-FR) has been certified by the FAA for use on all military aircraft. The
company is currently producing 180 MILACAS-FR systems for Boeing's entire C-17
fleet under a contract valued at $20 million.
Honeywell's 131-9A Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) has been selected by Skybus Airlines
for its fleet of 65 new Airbus A319 aircraft. The company will also provide an Integrated
Service Solutions support program for the assets and APU maintenance throughout the
term of the 12-year, $37 million agreement.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 18%, compared with the first quarter of 2006, driven by organic sales
growth of 12% (9% in the Products and 18% in the Solutions businesses) and the net
impact of acquisitions and divestitures of 6%.
Segment margins were 9.8% compared with 9.3% a year ago, due to volume growth and
productivity savings, which more than offset the negative impacts of inflation, sales mix
and the dilutive impact of acquisitions.
Honeywell Life Safety recorded over $4 million of contract wins in the quarter related to
continued non-residential construction growth and business expansion in emerging
regions.
Building Solutions announced a $28 million contract by the U.S. General Services
Administration (GSA) to upgrade building systems and reduce energy costs at the new
Food and Drug Administration headquarters in Silver Spring, MD. The upgrades are
expected to help the GSA cut energy costs by $3 million per year while improving
comfort for building occupants.
Process Solutions announced a $7 million contract to implement an Experion Process
Knowledge System at a new chemical plant operated by Kuwait Paraxylene Production
Company to reduce installation and maintenance costs while boosting the plant's
performance.
     
Q1 Results - 3
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 10%, compared with the first quarter of 2006, driven by increased light
vehicle Turbo Technologies sales, the positive impact of foreign exchange and higher
sales of aftermarket products, which were partially offset by an expected decline in Turbo
Technologies commercial vehicle sales in North America.
Segment margins were 13.0%, flat to last year, due to pricing actions and productivity
savings, which were offset by inflation and increased spending for new product launches.
Turbo Technologies won programs on four new passenger vehicle diesel platforms and
one gasoline platform estimated to be worth approximately $300 million in annual
revenues at full production. The programs represent platforms in Europe, Asia and the
United States. The first of these platforms is expected to launch in 2008.
Consumer Products Group launched Blink, an innovative new line of products designed
for quick interior car clean-up. Initial acceptance by retailers has been positive and at full
launch the Blink product line will be available in 30,000 outlets throughout the U.S.,
including Wal-Mart.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 4% compared with the first quarter of 2006, driven by stronger than
anticipated performance on UOP projects, which were partially offset by lower
refrigerant sales.
Segment margins were 16.0% compared with 14.1% a year ago, due to favorable sales
mix, price and productivity actions, which more than offset the negative impact of
inflation.
Specialty Materials and DuPont signed an agreement to accelerate development and
commercialization of next generation, low global warming refrigerants for the
automotive air conditioning industry.
UOP commissioned its 200th CCR Platforming process unit, a significant milestone
for refining process technology. Located in the Hainan Province of China, the unit will
enable Sinopec, the region's largest producer and supplier of oil and petrochemical
products to supply clean fuel and chemical feedstocks throughout China.
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (
http://www.honeywell.com/investor)
. Investors can access a replay of the investor call starting at 11:00 a.m. EDT, April 20, until midnight, April 27, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 3774642.
Honeywell International is a $33 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London and Chicago Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
Q1 Results - 4
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our performance in both the near- and long-term. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Q1 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock option expense.
Q1 Results - 6
(A) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Q1 Results - 7
Q1 Results - 8
Q1 Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


