FILE:HON/HON-8K-20080418071002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
[   ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02   
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
     
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding first quarter earnings on Friday, April 18 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
     
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2008 earnings on April 18, 2008, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01   
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
(c)   Exhibit 99
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

News Release
Organic Revenue Growth Across All Regions
Cash from Operations and Free Cash Flow Up 25%
Continued Aggressive Repositioning to Benefit Future Periods
Major Contract Wins with Embraer, Gulfstream, and Airbus
Full-Year Earnings per Share Guidance Moved to High End of Previous Range
     
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 18, 2008 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced first quarter 2008 sales increased 11% to $8.9 billion from $8.0 billion in 2007. Earnings were up 30% to $0.85 per share, versus $0.66 per share in the prior year. Cash flow from operations was $721 million versus $578 million in the first quarter of 2007 and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $571 million, compared to $458 million last year, in each case an increase of 25%.
     
"We continue to outperform with double-digit sales, EPS, and free cash flow increases in the quarter," said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. "Our global reach and diversified portfolio of businesses helped to drive organic sales growth across all regions. We also continue to win major multi-year contracts that support the favorable long-term outlook for our businesses."
     
"We remain confident in Honeywell's outlook despite tougher global economic conditions," added Cote. "We continue to invest in innovation and acquisitions while executing on productivity initiatives such as Honeywell Operating System, Velocity Product Development, and Functional Transformation. Our cash deployment strategy and focus on organic sales growth and productivity are delivering strong returns to our shareowners."
     Honeywell is increasing its previously stated 2008 sales guidance by $700 million to $36.8 - 37.4 billion and is moving its earnings per share guidance to $3.70  3.80, the high end of its previously stated range.
Q1 Results - 2
First-Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were up 7%, compared with the first quarter of 2007, driven by 8% growth in
Commercial and 5% growth in Defense and Space sales. Commercial sales reflected
growth of 8% in original equipment and 8% in aftermarket spares and services. Defense
and Space sales included the positive impact of the Dimensions International acquisition.
Segment profit grew 13%, while segment margin increased by 100 bps to 18.6%, due
primarily to increased prices, productivity, and sales volume growth, partially offset by
inflation.
Honeywell has been chosen to supply the latest generation of its HTF7000 turbofan
propulsion system family for Embraer's new MSJ and MLJ business aircraft in a contract
valued at more than $23 billion (including aftermarket) over the life of the contract. The
HTF7500-E engine will feature new technology to achieve reduced emissions and
improved fuel efficiency.
Honeywell was selected to supply avionics and mechanical systems for the new
Gulfstream G650 aircraft worth an estimated $3 billion. The contract includes the first
business jet application of Honeywell's Next Generation Flight Management System,
previously announced for the Boeing 747-8, as well as its RDR4000 turbulence certified
weather radar that is in service on the Airbus A380 and Air Force C-17 aircraft.
Honeywell secured a $1.5 billion contract (including aftermarket) to provide the Flight
Management System and the Aircraft Environment Surveillance System for Airbus' new
long-range, extra wide-body A350XWB aircraft. In September 2007, Honeywell was
selected by Airbus to provide advanced Air Management Systems and auxiliary power
unit technologies for the Airbus A350XWB in a contract valued at $16 billion (including
aftermarket) over the life of the contract.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 14%, compared with the first quarter of 2007, due to acquisitions, the
favorable impact of foreign exchange and organic growth. Sales were up 14% in the
Products businesses and up 14% in the Solutions businesses.
Segment profit grew 20%, while segment margin increased by 50 bps to 10.3%, driven
by productivity savings and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by
inflation and the impact of acquisitions.
Life Safety announced an agreement to acquire Norcross Safety Products, a leading
manufacturer in the large and growing personal protection equipment market for fire,
utility, and general industrial applications, for approximately $1.2 billion.
Building Solutions was awarded four renewable energy solar panel projects in California
and Oregon. The projects are expected to produce more than 2.4 million kilowatt-hours
of electricity annually, which can power up to 225 homes per year. The business will
also partner with Baltimore Gas & Electric on a demand response program giving the
utility greater control of peak consumption using Honeywell's new UtilityPRO
thermostat.
Process Solutions will provide its Experion Process Knowledge System for a new
liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in Western Australia. The integrated control system
will streamline production, improve operational efficiency and safety, and provide data
from subsystems throughout the facility to aid operator decision making.
Q1 Results - 3
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 6%, compared with the first quarter of 2007, driven by the favorable
impact of foreign exchange and increased sales in our Turbo Technologies business.
Segment profit decreased 4%, while segment margin decreased by 130 bps to 11.7%,
resulting from CPG volume declines, the impact of commodity inflation, and investments
in product development to support future Turbo platforms.
Turbo Technologies was awarded three contracts estimated at more than $183 million in
revenue over the life of the programs. These include new technology solutions for
passenger vehicle diesel engines and will be produced in Japan and Europe for export to
European and U.S. markets beginning in 2009.
Honeywell's turbochargers were featured on 28 new vehicles  with engines ranging
from 1.1 to 4.4 liters  at the 78th International Motor Show of Geneva in March. The
company introduced its latest gasoline turbo technology on the new BMW X6.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 18% compared with the first quarter of 2007, driven by growth in all
businesses, particularly UOP, Resins and Chemicals and Fluorine Products.
Segment profit grew 38%, while segment margin increased by 280 bps to 18.8%, driven
by pricing and productivity gains which more than offset inflation.
UOP plans to establish a natural gas processing design center in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia, to better support the growing Southeast Asia market. The new design center
will focus initially on executing projects involving UOP's Separex membrane systems,
which are used to remove impurities from natural gas streams.
Honeywell Performance Products will expand production of Aclar film to meet
growing demand for the clear, moisture-barrier material, which is used extensively in
pharmaceutical packaging. An upgrade of existing production capabilities, combined
with overall productivity improvements, is expected to boost Aclar production by up to
23% by the end of 2008.
     
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (
http://www.honeywell.com/investor)
. Investors can access a replay of the investor call starting at 11:00 a.m. EDT, April 18, until 11 p.m., April 25, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 39285103.
Honeywell International is a $36 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our performance in both the near- and long-term. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Q1 Results - 4
 
Q1 Results - 5
Q1 Results - 6
Q1 Results - 7
Q1 Results - 8
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


