FILE:HON/HON-8K-20080125060145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
ITEM 2.02
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
     
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding fourth quarter and full year 2007 earnings on Friday, January 25, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (706) 643-7681 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
     
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full year 2007 earnings which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
(d)    Exhibit 99
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

          
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., January 25, 2008 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced full-year 2007 sales increased 10% to $34.6 billion from $31.4 billion in 2006. Earnings per share were up 25% to $3.16 versus $2.52 in the prior year. Cash flow from operations increased 22% to $3.9 billion versus $3.2 billion in 2006, and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was up 27% to $3.1 billion versus $2.5 billion in the prior year.
          
Fourth quarter sales were up 12% to $9.3 billion versus $8.3 billion in 2006. Earnings per share increased 26% to $0.91 versus $0.72 in the prior year fourth quarter. Cash flow from operations was up 16% to $1.4 billion versus $1.2 billion in the prior year, and free cash flow was up approximately 20% to $1.1 billion versus $0.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006.
          
"2007 was another terrific year for Honeywell," said Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "Our great positions in good industries, together with favorable macro trends, drove growth across each of our four business segments in 2007. The year's highlights included major contract wins, more than $1 billion in acquisitions, and approximately $4 billion in share repurchases, all driving shareowner value."
          
"While we anticipate softer global economic conditions in 2008, we remain confident in Honeywell's ability to outperform," added Cote. "We will continue to invest in innovation, expand globally, and execute on productivity initiatives to drive double digit earnings per share growth and higher free cash flow in 2008."
Q4 Results - 2
Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were up 11%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2006, driven by 12% growth in
Commercial and 9% growth in Defense and Space sales. Commercial sales reflected growth
of 15% in original equipment and 10% in aftermarket spares and services. Defense and Space
sales included the positive impact of the Dimensions International acquisition.
Segment profit grew 14%, while segment margin increased by 60 bps to 18.8%, driven by
productivity gains, price, and volume growth, which more than offset the negative impact
from inflation.
Honeywell signed a $1 billion contract with AirTran Airways to supply avionics on new
aircraft and provide maintenance on AirTran's entire fleet through 2030. AirTran selected
Honeywell's full avionics portfolio, including Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System,
Airborne Collision Avoidance System, Weather Radar with Forward-Looking Windshear
Detection, Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorders, for up to 150 new Boeing
737s. Honeywell will also provide maintenance services for all of its equipment on AirTran's
entire fleet  up to 250 aircraft  including avionics, lighting, mechanical components,
Auxiliary Power Units, and wheels and brakes. This is the largest commercial aftermarket
services contract ever awarded to Honeywell Aerospace.
Honeywell has been selected to provide its Runway Awareness and Advisory System to
Emirates Airlines to assist its pilots with increased situational awareness during taxi, takeoff,
and landing. Honeywell's system helps prevent runway incursions as airports are becoming
increasingly more crowded. In addition to Emirates, the system has also been installed on Air
France, Alaska Airlines, Fed Ex, Thai Airways, Malaysia Airlines, and Lufthansa Airlines.
Honeywell received Technical Standard Order approval for Synthetic Vision from the Federal
Aviation Administration. Synthetic Vision utilizes a digitized database of worldwide terrain
and obstacles to provide pilots with a 3-dimensional, real-time view of terrain and obstacles
on an aircraft's primary display in any weather condition. The first application for this
technology will be for Gulfstream aircraft.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 13%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2006, driven by 9% growth in the
Products businesses and 20% growth in the Solutions businesses.
Segment profit grew 10%, while segment margin decreased by 20 bps to 12.4%, due to
volume growth and productivity savings, which were more than offset by the negative impact
of inflation, ERP implementation costs, and sales mix
Building Solutions announced a $4 million project with Arnot Ogden Medical Center in
Elmira, N.Y., to install renewable energy technology, including the installation of a wood
chip-fired boiler and an upgrade of the facility's infrastructure, which will provide nearly 60%
of the energy consumed by the center's Main Medical Center. The business also won a $5
million energy performance project with Fort Jackson, Columbia, S.C., to provide a variety of
energy conservation measures to ensure that the 10-million-square-foot Fort's building control
systems are running at peak efficiency.
Process Solutions introduced OneWireless Equipment Health Monitoring (EHM), the latest
addition to Honeywell's portfolio of industrial wireless solutions. OneWireless EHM will
wirelessly transmit performance information from the field to the plant control room, helping
reduce equipment failures and lower maintenance costs.
Q4 Results - 3
Honeywell announced a project with Shell Perdido in Louisiana for 59 Excel Optima Short
range detectors and accessories for their Fire and Emergency Equipment Systems project. The
project will help Shell standardize all offshore oil and gas production platforms in the Gulf of
Mexico region.
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 11% compared with the fourth quarter of 2006, driven by the favorable impact
of foreign exchange and pricing actions.
Segment profit was up 6% as a result of the net benefit from price and productivity actions,
while segment margin decreased 60 bps to 11.0% due to investments in new products and
inflation.
Turbo Technologies won two programs estimated at approximately $95 million in annual
revenues at full production. The programs include commercial diesel and passenger vehicle
gasoline engines and will both be launched in Europe beginning in 2009.
Consumer Products Group announced that Wal-Mart will add its premium spark plug,
Autolite Double Platinum, at 2,400 Wal-Mart stores in 2008.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 14% compared with the fourth quarter of 2006, driven by growth in all
businesses, particularly in UOP and Resins & Chemicals.
Segment profit grew 70%, while segment margin increased by 350 bps to 10.8%, primarily
due to increased prices and productivity savings.
Honeywell's Enovate blowing agent is helping insulate walls in China's National Stadium,
host to the 2008 Olympic Games. The technology will help the stadium meet strict energy
efficiency and environmental guidelines that are required by government construction
authorities and the international Olympic Committee. The stadium is the first major public
building in China to incorporate Enovate.
UOP's Ecofining technology was selected by Galp Energia, Portugal's largest refiner, to
produce diesel fuel from vegetable oils. Galp Energia will process 6,500 barrels of vegetable
oils per day, supplying European refineries with a high-cetane "green" diesel fuel to help meet
increased demand for high-quality, clean fuels, and biofuels. Green diesel is produced from
renewable resources and generates lower emissions than either biodiesel or traditional
petroleum-based diesel. It can be used as a drop in replacement fuel in current diesel engines
without modifications. In addition, Newfoundland & Labrador Refining Corp. selected UOP
to supply technology, basic engineering services, and equipment for the first new fuel refinery
to be built in North America since 1984.
          
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EST. To participate, please dial (706) 643-7681 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (
http://www.honeywell.com/investor)
. Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 11:00 a.m. EST, January 25, until midnight, February 1, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 29135611.
Q4 Results - 4
Honeywell International is a $36 billion diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London and Chicago Stock Exchanges. It is one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is also a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For additional information, please visit
www.honeywell.com
.
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q4 Results - 5
 
 
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement benefits expense, and stock option expense.
 
Q4 Results - 6
 
      (A) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
Q4 Results - 7
 
 
Q4 Results - 8
 
 
Q4 Results - 9
 
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
 


