FILE:HON/HON-8K-20091023071018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02  
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
          
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding third quarter earnings on Friday, October 23, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (719) 457-2683 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
          
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2009 earnings on October 23, 2009, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
(d)      Exhibit 99
          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

     
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., October 23, 2009  Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced third quarter 2009 sales of $7.7 billion, in line with expectations, versus $9.3 billion in the third quarter last year. Earnings were $0.80 per share compared to $0.97 per share in the third quarter of 2008. Third quarter 2009 EPS included the positive impact of lower than expected tax expense in the quarter of approximately $0.04, which the company expects to be offset on a full-year basis by a higher income tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2009. Cash flow from operations was $1,148 million versus $769 million last year, and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $1,022 million versus $556 million in the third quarter of 2008.
     
"Honeywell is positioning its businesses for long-term growth by continuing to invest in new products and services, geographic expansion, and key process initiatives," said Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "We executed well in the third quarter with sales on track and better than expected earnings and free cash flow performance. We're particularly pleased with our free cash flow performance year-to-date, which reflects our strong operating disciplines and working capital controls. These results reflect the impact of the growth investments and productivity actions we have taken in the midst of tough market conditions."
     
"Our employees have responded remarkably in support of both our growth initiatives and productivity actions," continued Cote. "Their contributions have enabled us to meet our performance objectives despite ongoing volume headwinds. By preserving our industrial base and continuing to build a robust pipeline of differentiated technologies and new products for the global marketplace, we're confident Honeywell will emerge from this period a much stronger company, ready to grow and build on our great positions in good industries."
     
Honeywell forecasts 2009 sales of approximately $31 billion, earnings per share of $2.85 and free cash flow of $3 billion.
Q3 Results - 2
Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were down 16% compared with the third quarter of 2008, resulting from lower
volumes in Commercial Aerospace, partially offset by higher sales of original equipment
for military platforms, logistics services and advanced aircraft modifications, and
upgrades.
Segment profit was down 12%, primarily due to volume declines, however segment
margin increased 80 bps to 17.4% driven by cost savings initiatives and benefits from
prior repositioning actions.
Honeywell SmartPath Precision Landing System received FAA System Design
Approval, making it the first ground-based augmentation system (GBAS) to receive this
distinction. SmartPath provides differential Global Positioning System (GPS) corrections
to replace or supplement older landing system technology such as Instrument Landing
System (ILS), enabling more precision, more flight path flexibility, and more airport
throughput.
Honeywell signed a $77 million contract with AWAS, one of the world's leading aircraft
leasing companies, to provide safety and navigational avionics and its fuel-efficient
Auxiliary Power Unit (APU). The advanced avionics include IntuVue, Honeywell's 3-
D weather radar that allows pilots to better see and avoid weather, wind shear and
turbulence, ensuring a safer and more comfortable ride for passengers, as well as cost
savings for the airlines.
 
Honeywell won a $185 million contract with the United Kingdom's Ministry of Defense
to provide T55-L-714A engines and spares to retrofit their fleet of Chinook helicopters.
The T55-L-714A engine increases power by 17%, increases maintenance intervals and
reduces fuel consumption by nearly 5%.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were down 14%, compared with the third quarter of 2008, resulting from slower
economic growth and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by
continued growth in emerging regions, new product introductions, and the net favorable
impact from acquisitions and divestitures.
Segment profit was flat due to lower sales, while segment margin increased 180 bps to
13.5% driven by cost savings initiatives and benefits from prior repositioning actions.
Building Solutions completed one of the largest solar projects for the Army at Fort Dix,
N.J., part of an energy savings performance contract (ESPC) valued at $17.6 million.
The ESPC will decrease energy consumption at the post by almost 10% annually.
Building Solutions signed a $33.6 million, 20-year energy efficiency and facility renewal
program with the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority (MPHA). The program will
help MPHA improve its infrastructure and reduce energy consumption, saving more than
$3.7 million in utility costs per year. The program, which will impact more than 40 high-
rise buildings and 700 single-family residences across the city, is one of the largest
projects of its kind.
Process Solutions was selected to automate Flambeau River Biofuels, the largest green
diesel plant in the United States. Honeywell will provide the Park Falls, Wisconsin plant
with a fully-integrated system to help produce 18 million gallons of green diesel annually
from wood waste and forest residue.
Honeywell Life Safety received a $3.5 million order from Y-12 National Security
Complex in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, a U.S. Department of Energy facility, for respiratory
protection products.
Q3 Results - 3
Transportation Systems
Sales were down 24% compared with the third quarter of 2008 due to lower volumes
primarily driven by lower sales to global automotive OE customers and the negative
impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by new platform launches with automotive
OE customers and share gains in the automotive aftermarket retail channel.
Segment profit was down 39% and segment margin decreased 170 bps to 7.1% due to
lower sales volumes partially offset by cost savings initiatives and benefits from prior
restructuring actions.
Turbo Technologies was awarded contracts estimated at more than $370 million in
revenue over the life of these programs. The contracts, which include critical platform
wins with key customers in Europe, Asia, and the U.S. on both gasoline and diesel
passenger and commercial vehicle applications, are expected to begin in 2011.
Independent analysts expect turbo penetration to grow from 24% of all light vehicles
today to around 70% by 2020, and predict rapid turbo adoption in the U.S. reaching close to 25% of the total light vehicle sales in the next five years.
Honeywell launched its gasoline turbocharging technology on BMW's new ActiveHybrid
engine intended for its 7-series and X6 vehicles. This 4.4L, V8 engine combines a hybrid
transmission with an advanced gasoline turbocharged engine to deliver 407 hp and
provide best-in-class fuel consumption and emissions in this vehicle category.
Specialty Materials
Sales were down 23% compared with the third quarter of 2008, resulting from lower
volumes and the unfavorable impact of pass through raw material price declines at our
Resins and Chemicals business, partially offset by higher petrochemical catalyst sales and
traction on green initiatives at UOP.
Segment profit was down 2%, primarily due to volume declines, however segment
margin increased 330 bps to 15.2% due to the positive impact of lower material costs and
cost savings initiatives.
UOP announced that its green jet fuel process technology will be used to produce nearly
600,000 gallons of green jet fuel, made from sustainable, non-food feedstocks including
animal fats, algae, and camelina, for the U.S. Navy and Air Force. This is part of a joint
program for the U.S. Defense Energy Support Center for alternative fuels testing and
certification.
Electronic Materials announced the launch of SOLARC, a new anti-reflective
coating that improves the efficiency and power output of photovoltaic panels. This new
product uses materials originally developed for semiconductor manufacturing to improve
the light transmittance through the glass that covers photovoltaic panels.
     
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (719) 457-2683 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (. Investors can access a replay of the webcast starting at 11:00 a.m. EDT, October 23, until midnight EDT, October 30, by dialing (719) 457-0820. The access code is 4845565.
http://www.honeywell.com/investor)
Q3 Results - 4
Honeywell (
www.honeywell.com
) is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit
www.honeywellnow.com
.
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q3 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q3 Results - 6
Q3 Results - 7
Q3 Results - 8
Q3 Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
 


