FILE:HON/HON-8K-20090727071016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
8
FORM
-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT  July 27, 2009
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
HONEYWELL
INTERNATIONAL
INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02     
DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding second quarter earnings on Monday, July 27, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (719) 325-4821 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
 
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2009 earnings on July 27, 2009, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01     
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99 
News Release
 
Contacts:
 
HONEYWELL REPORTS SECOND QUARTER SALES OF
$7.6 BILLION AND EARNINGS PER SHARE OF $0.60
 
Company Reports Second Quarter In Line; Delivers More Than $1 Billion in Cash Flow;
Anticipating Continued Tough Economic Conditions
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., July 27, 2009 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced second quarter 2009 sales of $7.6 billion versus $9.7 billion in the second quarter of 2008 and earnings of $0.60 per share, compared to $0.96 per share in the second quarter last year. Cash flow from operations was $1,126 million versus $1,042 million in the second quarter of 2008 and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $1,009 million, compared to $853 million in the second quarter of last year.
 
"Honeywell had good second quarter performance in a tough environment," said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. "We are particularly pleased with our strong free cash flow conversion performance, which reflects our emphasis on effectively managing working capital in these very dynamic market conditions. We also had several important long-term contract wins, including Europe's Air Traffic Modernization program, and we announced a key acquisition in the attractive gas transmission segment to bolster our Process Solutions business. We continue to invest in new products and services that will help strengthen our great positions in good industries and prepare Honeywell for growth when the economy rebounds."
 
"Economic conditions, however, remain challenging and we are not planning for any recovery in 2009," continued Cote. "Our key process initiatives, such as the Honeywell Operating System, Velocity Product Development, and Functional Transformation, are enabling the aggressive, company-wide repositioning and cost actions that will help Honeywell continue to deliver earnings and free cash flow in this tough environment."
 
Honeywell expects full-year 2009 sales of approximately $31.5 billion and earnings of approximately $2.85 per share, which is at the low end of the company's previously stated earnings range.
 
- MORE -
 
Q2 Results - 2
 
 
Second Quarter Segment Highlights
 
Aerospace
 
 
Automation and Control Solutions
 
 
- MORE -
 
Q2 Results - 3
 
 
Transportation Systems
 
 
Specialty Materials
 
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (719) 325-4821 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (). Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 11:00 a.m. EDT, July 27, until midnight, August 3, by dialing (719) 457-0820. The access code is 4808354.
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
 
Honeywell International () is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit .
www.honeywell.com
www.honeywellnow.com
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
 
# # #
 
 
Q2 RESULTS - 4
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q2 RESULTS - 5
Q2 RESULTS - 6
Q2 RESULTS - 7
Q2 RESULTS - 8
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


