FILE:HON/HON-8K-20100423071029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e - -4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
.
EARNINGS RELEASE.
          Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding first quarter earnings on Friday, April 23, 2010 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire approximately one hour prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (719) 785-1755 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
          Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2010 earnings on April 23, 2010, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

N e w s  R e l e a s e
       
 -            -   
EPS of $0.68 Excluding Non-Cash Pension Expense, Up 21% Versus Prior Year
Organic Sales Growth Resumes in Several Short-Cycle Businesses         -   Strong Operating Leverage, Margin Improvement In 3 of 4 Businesses         -   Raising Full-Year EPS and Cash Flow Guidance
   
  
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 23, 2010 -- Honeywell () today announced first quarter 2010 sales were up 3% to $7.8 billion versus $7.6 billion in 2009 and earnings were $0.50 per share versus $0.54 per share in the prior year. Excluding non-cash pension expense, earnings were up 21% to $0.68 per share compared to $0.56 per share in the prior year. Cash flow from operations was $743 million versus $341 million in the first quarter of 2009 and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was up 190% to $673 million compared to $232 million last year.
NYSE: HON
   
  
"Honeywell's first quarter performance reflects better than expected improvements in many of our end markets, coupled with strong commercial execution and disciplined cost controls," said Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "Key short cycle businesses, such as turbochargers and general industrial products, saw good organic growth in the quarter reflecting improved market conditions. We're building a strong backlog of orders and are encouraged by continued penetration of our new products and important contracts won during the quarter. We also continue to benefit from effective execution of our big process initiatives - Honeywell Operating System, Velocity Product Development, and Functional Transformation - contributing to strong operating leverage and margin expansion." "While the timing and shape of the recovery is uncertain and we remain conservative in our planning assumptions, the outlook for Honeywell is bright," continued Cote. "Our great positions in good industries; links to favorable global macro trends, such as safety, security, and energy efficiency; growth in emerging regions; and strong pipeline of new products and technologies are reflected in our raised outlook for the year and should drive attractive growth over the long-term." Honeywell now expects 2010 sales of $31.5 -32.3 billion and earnings in the range of $2.30 -2.45 per share versus a previous estimate of $2.20 -2.40 per share. The company also now expects free cash flow of $2.8 -3.1 billion (cash flow from operations of $3.5 -3.8 billion) versus a previous estimate of $2.4 -2.7 billion.
Q1'10 Results - 2
First Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were down 9% compared with the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to lower original
equipment sales to regional and business aviation customers and lower airline aftermarket
sales, partially offset by growth in defense sales and logistics services.
Segment profit was down 15% and segment margin decreased 120 bps to 16.5%, primarily due
to volume declines, partially offset by cost savings initiatives and benefits from prior
repositioning actions.
Honeywell announced more than $190 million in contracts at the Singapore Air Show for
avionics, maintenance, and auxiliary power unit selections with Asia Pacific regional airlines,
including China Eastern, Air China, Qantas, and Vietnam Airlines.
Honeywell won a $51 million, five-year contract with the Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft
Division to provide engineering and integrated logistics support. The company will provide
design, development, integration, testing, evaluation, maintenance, and logistics support for the
Light Airborne Multi-Purpose System (LAMPS), the shipboard element of a two-way digital
data link between a U.S. Navy ship and a SH-60 helicopter.
Honeywell was selected by Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, Ltd.
(COMAC) to supply our 131-9 Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) and associated equipment for the
C919 single-aisle commercial airliner valued at $7.3 billion over the life of the contract. The
Honeywell 131-9 APU has more than 51 million hours in commercial service on narrow-body
aircraft like the Boeing 737 and the Airbus A320. The 131-9 APU delivers industry-leading
reliability with more than 10,000 hours between unscheduled maintenance, which lowers the
cost of operations and features the lowest fuel burn and ramp noise available in its class.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 4%, compared with the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to the positive impact
of foreign exchange, continued growth in emerging regions, new product introductions, and
general industrial recovery, partially offset by softness in commercial and residential end
markets in developed regions.
Segment profit was up 24% and segment margin increased 200 bps to 12.4% driven by cost
savings initiatives and benefits from prior repositioning actions, partially offset by inflation.
Automation and Control Solutions introduced approximately 115 new products in the first
quarter, including the Dolphin 9700, a rugged digital assistant, equipped with multi-functional
data collection and communications; the Honeywell Zephyr
TM
, the industry's most accurate
airflow sensor for medical and industrial applications; and the Silent Knight IntelliKnight 5600
, a 25-point control panel that provides customers with a more cost-effective, intelligent fire
alarm solution with pinpoint identification of a fire source.
Building Solutions won a General Services Administration (GSA) Region 7 Energy Savings
Performance Contract (ESPC) worth $10 million. The GSA sites are primarily border stations,
federal office buildings, and courthouses. The project includes both solar and wind power
installations, with building automation (lighting, water, and mechanical retrofits) being installed
at 22 sites.
Process Solutions signed a five-year agreement to be a Main Automation Contractor (MAC) for
Royal Dutch Shell PLC to design automation and safety systems. In addition, the business
announced that its Experion Process Knowledge System (PKS) will control operations and
help drive a 50% increase in production capacity for Thailand's first supercritical power plant
operated by GHECO-One Ltd; a significant $5 million commitment from a Korean shipbuilder
for instrumentation on 100 vessels; and RMG secured a $5 million contract from a Chinese gas
pipeline distribution company to provide regulators for gas pressure reduction stations.
Q1'10 Results - 3
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 33% compared with the first quarter of 2009, due to higher volumes of
turbochargers, friction materials, and consumer products globally and the favorable impact of
foreign exchange.
Segment profit was up approximately $100 million and segment margin increased 1,000 bps to
9.6% driven by higher volumes, increased productivity, and benefits from prior restructuring
actions.
Honeywell Turbo Technologies was awarded new platform wins with customers including
Volkswagen, Peugeot, and General Motors estimated at more than $1 billion in revenue over the
life of the programs. The platforms span the European, Asian, and American markets for both
passenger and commercial vehicle applications and are expected to launch beginning in 2012.
Honeywell launched its latest Euro5 VNT (Variable Nozzle Turbine) turbo on the world's most fuel-efficient five-seater passenger car  the Volkswagen Polo BlueMotion 1.2L diesel. The Polo will deliver 15% better fuel economy and 15% less emissions than its predecessor model.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 8% compared with the first quarter of 2009, resulting from higher sales in our
Resins and Chemicals, Electronic Materials, and Fluorine Products businesses due to improved
global markets and the favorable impact of pass-through raw material price increases, partially
offset by lower catalyst sales and project timing in our UOP business.
Segment profit was up 36% and segment margin increased 300 bps to 14.9% due to higher
sales, commercial and plant effectiveness, and cost savings initiatives.
Honeywell Green Jet Fuel, produced using Honeywell UOP's renewable jet fuel process
technology, powered a U.S. Navy F/A-18 Super Hornet (the "Green Hornet") in the first
supersonic flight as part of the Navy's efforts to certify the use of alternative fuels in military
aircraft. The fuel was produced under a project for U.S. Defense Energy Support Center
(DESC). Honeywell's UOP is producing approximately 600,000 gallons of fuel for use by the
Navy and U.S. Air Force from sustainable, non-food feedstocks, including animal fats, algae,
and camelina. Honeywell Green Jet Fuel has already been successfully tested on commercial
aircraft in demonstration flights by Air New Zealand, Continental Airlines, Japan Airlines,
and KLM. Results from those demonstration flights showed Honeywell Green Jet Fuel in a
50/50 blend with petroleum jet fuel performed as well, if not better, than traditional petroleum-derived jet fuel.
Honeywell Fluorine Products announced the launch of the Honeywell Enovate PRO
Contractor Program designed to help contractors expand their business offerings in the area of
air sealing and weatherization for home and buildings. The program features new Honeywell
products, including energy-efficient foam insulation and sealants, as well as professional
development training.
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 8:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (719) 785-1755 a few minutes before the 8:00 a.m. start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
). Investors can access a replay of the investor call starting at 11:00 a.m. EDT, April 23, until midnight, April 30, by dialing (719) 457-0820. The access code is 4643398.
Q1'10 Results - 4
Honeywell International (
www.honeywell.com
) is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit
www.honeywellnow.com
.
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q1'10 - Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q1'10 - Results - 6
Q1'10 - Results - 7
Q1'10 - Results - 8
Q1'10 - Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
1- Utilizes weighted average shares outstanding and the effective tax rate for the period.
2- Assumes weighted average shares outstanding of 780 million and a 26.5% effective tax rate for 2010 guidance.
We believe that earnings per share of common stock - assuming dilution, excluding pension expense is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends.


