FILE:HON/HON-8K-20100427121324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On April 26, 2010, a company proposal to amend the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Honeywell International Inc. ("Honeywell") to lower the minimum ownership threshold for shareowners to be able to call special meetings to twenty percent of the outstanding shares of Honeywell's Common Stock (excluding derivatives) was considered at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareowners and was approved by the holders of the majority of the outstanding shares. The amended text is contained in the sixth paragraph of Article EIGHTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i).
A corresponding By-law amendment, which also sets forth related procedural requirements, was previously adopted by Honeywell's Board of Directors and became effective upon shareowner approval of the amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The amended text is contained in Section 3 of Article II of Honeywell's By-laws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
3(i) Honeywell's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended April 26, 2010
3(ii) Honeywell's By-laws, as amended April 26, 2010
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3(i)
          Honeywell International Inc., which was originally incorporated in the State of Delaware on May 13, 1985, under the name of East/West Newco Corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends, restates and integrates the provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation as hereby amended. The Corporation certifies as follows:
Dated: April 26, 2010
Exhibit A
          Honeywell International Inc., which was originally incorporated in the State of Delaware on May 13, 1985 under the name of East/West Newco Corporation, hereby certifies that this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends, restates and integrates the provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation as hereby amended. The text of the certificate of incorporation as heretofore amended is hereby restated to read in its entirety as follows:
          FIRST: The name of the corporation is Honeywell International Inc.
          SECOND: The address of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, in the City of Wilmington, 19808 County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at that address is Corporation Service Company.
          THIRD: The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as set forth in Title 8 of the Delaware Code.
          FOURTH: The total number of shares of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is 2,040,000,000 shares of which 2,000,000,000 shares shall be Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share ("Common Shares"), and 40,000,000 shares shall be Preferred Stock, without par value ("Preferred Stock").
          FIFTH: From time to time the corporation may issue and may sell its authorized shares for such consideration per share (with respect to shares having a par value, not less than the par value thereof), either in money or money's worth of property or services, or for such other considerations, whether greater or less, now or from time to time hereafter permitted by law, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors; and all shares so issued shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
          No holder of any shares of any class shall as such holder have any preemptive right to subscribe for or purchase any other shares or securities of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized, which at any time may be offered for sale or sold by the corporation.
          Each holder of record of the Common Shares of the corporation shall be entitled to one vote for every Common Share standing in his name on the books of the corporation.
          The corporation may issue Preferred Stock from time to time in one or more series as the Board of Directors may establish by the adoption of a resolution or resolutions relating thereto, each series to have such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such
designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to authority to do so, which authority is hereby granted to the Board of Directors.
          SIXTH: The duration of the corporation is to be perpetual.
          SEVENTH: Except as otherwise provided pursuant to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of certain holders of Preferred Stock to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, the number of Directors of the corporation shall be determined from time to time in the manner described in the By-laws. The Directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of Preferred Stock pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation, shall be elected by the holders of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (the "Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class, and shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been elected and qualified. Directors serving on April 25, 2005 shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall have been elected and qualified, notwithstanding that such directors may have been elected for a term that extended beyond the date of such annual meeting of stockholders. No Director need be a stockholder.
          Except as otherwise provided pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of certain holders of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining director. Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which such Director has been elected expires, and until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
          Subject to the rights of certain holders of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under circumstances specified in this Certificate of Incorporation, Directors may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
          EIGHTH: The By-laws of the corporation may contain provisions, not inconsistent with law or this Certificate of Incorporation, relating to the management of the business of the corporation, the regulation of its affairs, the transfer of its stock, the qualifications, compensation and powers and duties of its Directors and the time and place and the manner of calling the meetings of its stockholders and Directors.
          The Board of Directors may from time to time fix, determine and vary the amount of the working capital of the corporation, may determine what part, if any, (i) of its surplus or (ii) in case there shall be no such surplus, of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is
declared and/or the preceding fiscal year shall be declared as dividends and paid to the stockholders, may determine the time or times for the declaration and payment of dividends, the amount thereof and whether they are to be in cash, property or shares of the capital stock of the corporation and may direct and determine the use and disposition of any surplus over and above the capital of the corporation.
          The Board of Directors may from time to time make, amend, supplement or repeal the By-laws; provided, however, that the stockholders may change or repeal any By-law adopted by the Board of Directors.
          The Board of Directors shall, except as otherwise provided by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-laws, exercise the powers of the corporation.
          Pursuant to the By-laws, an Executive Committee and/or one or more other committees may be appointed from among the Directors or otherwise, to which may be delegated any of or all the powers and duties of the Board of Directors, to the full extent permitted by law.
          Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock pursuant to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of stockholders may be called only by (i) the Chief Executive Officer, (ii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the then authorized number of Directors of the corporation (as determined in accordance with the By-laws), or (iii) the written request of holders having an aggregate "net long position" of not less than twenty percent of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock as of the date of such request ("Special Meeting Request"), filed with the Secretary of the Corporation and otherwise in accordance with the By-laws. "Net long position" shall be determined with respect to each requesting holder in accordance with the definition thereof set forth in Rule 14e-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided that (x) for purposes of such definition, in determining such holder's "short position," the reference in such Rule to "the date the tender offer is first publicly announced or otherwise made known by the bidder to the holders of the security to be acquired" shall be the date of the relevant Special Meeting Request and the reference to the "highest tender offer price or stated amount of the consideration offered for the subject security" shall refer to the closing sales price of the Corporation's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date (or, if such date is not a trading day, the next succeeding trading day) and (y) the net long position of such holder shall be reduced by the number of shares as to which such holder does not, or will not, have the right to vote or direct the vote at the Special Meeting or as to which such holder has entered into any derivative or other agreement, arrangement or understanding that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, any of the economic consequences of ownership of such shares. Whether the requesting holders have complied with the requirements of this Article and related provisions of the By-laws shall be determined in good faith by the Board, which determination shall be conclusive and binding on the Corporation and the stockholders.
          No contract or other transaction of the corporation shall be void, voidable, fraudulent or otherwise invalidated, impaired or affected, in any respect, by reason of the fact that any one or more of the officers, Directors or stockholders of the corporation shall individually be party or parties thereto or otherwise interested therein, or shall be officers, directors or stockholders of any other corporation or corporations which shall be party or parties thereto or otherwise
interested therein; provided that such contract or other transactions be duly authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or Executive Committee, with the assenting vote of a majority of the disinterested Directors or Executive Committeemen then present, or, if only one such is present, with his assenting vote.
          NINTH: No stockholder action may be taken except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation and stockholders may not take any action by written consent in lieu of a meeting.
          TENTH: Unless required by law or demanded by a stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or determined by the chairman of such meeting to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or his proxy if there be such proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted by such stockholder or proxy.
          ELEVENTH: (1). A Director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a Director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. If the Delaware General Corporation Law is amended after approval by the stockholders of this Article ELEVENTH to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a Director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this Section by the stockholders of the corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors
          (2)
Indemnification and Insurance.
          (A) . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a Director, officer or employee of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans (hereinafter, an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a Director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a Director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said Law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith and
Right to Indemnification
such indemnification shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a Director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators;, that, except as provided in paragraph (B) hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Section shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter, an "advancement of expenses"); that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a Director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter, an "undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter, a "final adjudication") that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section or otherwise, and, , that an advancement of expenses incurred by an employee other than a Director or officer in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding shall be made, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such employee to the same effect as any undertaking required to be delivered by a Director or officer.
provided, however
provided, however,
provided further
          (B If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Section is not paid in full by the corporation within sixty days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is
) Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit.
not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
          (C) The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Section shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, By-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
          (D) . The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any Director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
          (E) The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any agent of the corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Section with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of Directors, officers and employees of the corporation.
Indemnification of Agents of the Corporation.
          TWELFTH: The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.

Exhibit 3(ii)
Amended as of April 26, 2010
     SECTION 1. . The registered office of Honeywell International Inc. (hereinafter called the Corporation) within the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Registered Office
     SECTION 2. . The Corporation may also have an office or offices and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, in such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter called the Board) may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices
     SECTION 1. . All meetings of Stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware or at such other place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Place of Meetings
     SECTION 2. . The annual meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of any other proper business shall be held at 10:00 a.m. on the last Monday of April of each year, or on such other date and at such other time as may be fixed by the Board. If the annual meeting for the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated, the Board shall cause the meeting to be held as soon thereafter as convenient.
Annual Meetings
     SECTION 3. . Special meetings of Stockholders, unless otherwise provided by law, may be called at any time by the Board pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the then authorized number of directors (as determined in accordance with Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws), or by the Chief Executive Officer or by the written request of holders having an aggregate "net long position" (as defined in Article EIGHTH of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as amended) (the "Requisite Percent"), filed with the Secretary of the Corporation. Any such call (a "Special Meeting Request") must specify the matter or matters to be acted upon at such meeting, each of which must be a proper subject for Stockholder action under applicable law. The requesting Stockholders must also provide a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting (including the complete text of any resolution and any amendment to any Corporation document intended to be presented at the meeting), the reasons for conducting such business at a special meeting of Stockholders, any other information which may be required pursuant to these By-laws or which may be required to be disclosed under the Delaware General Corporation Law or
Special Meetings
included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and, as to the Stockholders calling the meeting and the beneficial owners on whose behalf the meeting is being called, (i) their name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record as of the date of such Special Meeting Request, together with documentary evidence of such ownership, (iii) any material interest in the business to be brought before the meeting, (iv) a description of all agreements or other arrangements or understandings between each such Stockholder, any nominee (if such business is the election of one or more nominees of such Stockholders) and/or beneficial owner or any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any other person or persons (including the names of such person(s)) in connection with such business, including any swap or other derivative or short positions, profits interests, options, hedging transactions or borrowed or loaned shares, the effect of any of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk of stock price changes (increases or decreases) for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such Stockholder, nominee or beneficial owner or any of their respective affiliates or associates with respect to the shares of the Corporation, (v) an undertaking by the Stockholder to notify the Corporation in writing of any change in the information called for by clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) as of the record date for such special meeting, by notice received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the 10th day following such record date, and thereafter by notice so given and received within two business days of any change in such information and, in any event, as of the close of business on the day preceding the meeting date, and (vi) an acknowledgement that any reduction in the aggregate net long position below the Requisite Percent following the delivery of the Special Meeting Request to the Secretary shall constitute a revocation of such Special Meeting Request.
          Upon the written request of any Stockholders who have called a special meeting, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Corporation to fix the date of the meeting which shall be held at such date and time as the Secretary may fix, not less than 10 nor more than 60 days after the receipt of the request (provided that such request complies with all applicable provisions of these By-laws), and to give due notice thereof in accordance with the applicable provisions of these By-laws. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a special meeting requested by Stockholders shall not be held if (i) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for Stockholder action under applicable law, (ii) the Special Meeting Request is delivered during the period commencing 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the notice of annual meeting for the immediately preceding annual meeting and ending on the earlier of (x) the date of the next annual meeting and (y) 30 calendar days after the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, (iii) an identical or substantially similar item (as determined in good faith by the Board, a "Similar Item"), other than the election of directors, was presented at a meeting of the Stockholders held not more than 12 months before the Special Meeting Request is delivered, (iv) a Similar Item was presented at a meeting of the stockholders held not more than 90 days before the Special Meeting Request is delivered (and, for purposes of this clause (iv), the election of directors shall be deemed a "Similar Item" with respect to all items of business involving the election or removal of directors) or (v) a Similar Item is included in the Corporation's notice as an item of business to be brought before a Stockholder meeting that
has been called by the time the Special Meeting Request is delivered but not yet held. Only matters as are stated in the notice of a special meeting of Stockholders shall be brought before and acted upon thereat; provided that nothing herein shall prohibit the Board from submitting matters to the Stockholders at any special meeting called by the Stockholders.
     SECTION 4. . Notice of each meeting of Stockholders, annual or special, shall be in writing, shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each Stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the Stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Unless (i) the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or (ii) the Board shall fix a new record date for any adjourned meeting after the adjournment, notice of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place to which the meeting shall be adjourned were announced at the meeting at which the adjournment was taken.
Notice of Meetings
     SECTION 5. . At each meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, the holders of a majority of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law. In the absence of a quorum, the chairman of the meeting or a majority in interest of those present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote at the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
     SECTION 6. . The order of business at all meetings of Stockholders shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting.
Order of Business
     SECTION 7. . Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of Stockholders, every Stockholder of the Corporation shall be entitled to one vote for every share of capital stock standing in his name on the stock record of the Corporation (i) at the time fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, or (ii) if no such record date shall have been fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice thereof shall be given. At each meeting of Stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, in all matters the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the Stockholders.
Voting
     SECTION 8. . In advance of any meeting of Stockholders, the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector shall take and sign such oath and
Inspectors
perform such duties as shall be required by law and may perform such other duties not inconsistent therewith as may be requested by the Corporation.
     SECTION 1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board. The Board may exercise all such authority and powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or otherwise directed or required to be exercised or done by the Stockholders.
Powers
     SECTION 2. .
Number, Election and Terms
          a) Authorized Number; Filling of Vacancies. The authorized number of directors may be determined from time to time by vote of a majority of the then authorized number of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that such number shall automatically be increased by two in the event of default in the payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock under the circumstances described in the Certificate of Incorporation. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been elected and qualified. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum of the Board, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the annual meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
          b) Majority Voting.
          c) Contested Elections. If the number of nominees for director, whether nominated by the Board and/or Stockholders, exceeds the number of directors to be elected, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in person or by proxy at any meeting of Stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present; provided, that, nominations by Stockholders (i) have been made in compliance with Section 3 of this Article and (ii) have not been withdrawn (such that the number of nominees no longer exceeds the number of directors to be elected) on or prior to the day immediately preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the Stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, Stockholders shall not be permitted to vote "against" any nominee.
     SECTION 3. .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
          a) Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
          b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of Stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of Stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any Stockholder of the Corporation who is a Stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this by-law, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this by-law. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of Stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such Stockholder may nominate a person or persons
(as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the Stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(iii) of this by-law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a Stockholder's notice as described above.
          c) General.
     SECTION 4. . Meetings of the Board shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or as shall be specified or fixed in the notice or waiver of notice of any such meeting.
Place of Meetings
     SECTION 5. . Regular meetings of the Board shall be held in accordance with a yearly meeting schedule as determined by the Board; or such meetings may be held on such other days and at such other times as the Board may from time to time determine. Notice of regular meetings of the Board need not be given except as otherwise required by these By-laws.
Regular Meetings
     SECTION 6. . Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chief Executive Officer and shall be called by the Secretary at the request of any two of the other directors.
Special Meetings
      SECTION 7. . Notice of each special meeting of the Board (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required), stating the time, place and purposes thereof, shall be mailed to each director, addressed to him at his residence or usual place of business, or shall be sent to him by telex, cable or telegram so addressed, or shall be given personally or by telephone, on 24 hours' notice, or such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Notice of Meetings
     SECTION 8. . The presence of at least a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. Except where a different vote is required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board may be taken without a meeting if all the directors consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board. Any one or more directors may participate in any meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting of the Board.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
     SECTION 9. . Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary, which notice shall be deemed to constitute notice to the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein.
Resignation
     SECTION 10. . Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, any director may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal of Directors
     SECTION 11. . The Board may provide for the payment to any of the directors, other than officers or employees of the Corporation, of a specified amount for services as a director or member of a committee of the Board, or of a specified amount for attendance at each regular or special Board meeting or committee meeting, or of both, and all directors shall be reimbursed for expenses of attendance at any such meeting;
Compensation of Directors
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
     SECTION 1. . The Board shall, by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate an Audit Committee of the Board, which shall consist of such number of directors as the Board may determine and shall be comprised solely of directors independent of management and free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member. The Audit Committee shall (i) make recommendations to the Board as to the independent accountants to be appointed by the Board; (ii) review with the independent accountants the scope of their examination; (iii) receive the reports of the independent accountants and meet with representatives of such accountants for the purpose of reviewing and considering questions relating to their examination and such reports; (iv) review, either directly or through the independent accountants, the internal accounting and auditing procedures of the Corporation and (v) perform such other functions as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. The Audit Committee may determine its manner of acting and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. A majority of the members of the Audit Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the committee and the vote of a majority of the members of the committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.
Appointment and Powers of Audit Committee
     SECTION 2. . The Board may, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate members of the Board to constitute an Executive Committee, a Management Development and Compensation Committee and other committees of the Board, which shall in each case consist of such number of directors as the Board may determine, and shall have and may exercise, to the extent permitted by law, such powers and authority as the Board may by resolution delegate to them and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which require it. Each such committee may determine its manner of acting and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. A majority of the members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the committee and the vote of a majority of the members of such committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.
Other Committees
     SECTION 3. . Unless the Board shall otherwise provide, any action required or permitted to be taken by any committee may be taken without a meeting if all members of the committee consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the committee. Unless the Board shall otherwise provide, any one or more members of any committee may participate in any meeting of the committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can
Action by Consent; Participation by Telephone or Similar Equipment
hear each other. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting of the committee.
     SECTION 4. . The Board shall have power, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors, at any time to change the members of, to fill vacancies in, and to discharge any committee of the Board. Any member of any such committee may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of such committee or the Secretary, which notice shall be deemed to constitute notice to the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein. Any member of any such committee may be removed at any time, either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors at any meeting of the Board, provided such removal shall have been referred to in the notice of such meeting.
Changes in Committees; Resignations; Removals
     SECTION 1. . The officers of the Corporation may include a Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, one or more Vice Presidents, General Counsel, Treasurer, Secretary and Controller; provided, however, that any one or more of the foregoing offices may remain vacant from time to time, except as otherwise required by law. So far as practicable, the officers shall be elected annually on the day of the annual meeting of Stockholders. Each officer shall hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his successor is elected and qualified, or until his death or retirement, or until he shall have resigned or been removed in the manner hereinafter provided. The same person may hold more than one office. The Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President shall be elected from among the directors. The Board may from time to time elect or appoint such other officers or agents as may be necessary or desirable for the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such titles and duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as may be prescribed by the Board. The Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Deputy, Associate or Assistant officers, or such other agents as may be necessary or desirable for the business of the Corporation. In case one or more Deputy, Associate or Assistant officers shall be appointed, the officer such appointee assists may delegate to him the authority to perform such of the officer's duties as the officer may determine.
Number and Qualifications
     SECTION 2. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary, which notice shall be deemed to constitute notice to the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein.
Resignations
     SECTION 3. . Any officer or agent may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by the Board at any meeting, provided such removal shall have been referred to in the notice of such meeting; provided, further, that the Chief Executive Officer may remove any agent appointed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Removal
     SECTION 4. . Any vacancy among the officers, whether caused by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled in the manner prescribed for election to such office.
Vacancies
     SECTION 5. . The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board and, in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, at all meetings of the Stockholders. He shall perform the duties incident to the office of the Chairman of the Board and all such other duties as are specified in these By-laws or as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board.
Chairman of the Board
     SECTION 6. . The Vice Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman of the Board shall not be present and at all meetings of the Stockholders at which neither the Chief Executive Officer nor the Chairman of the Board shall be present. He shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
Vice Chairman of the Board
     SECTION 7. . The Chief Executive Officer shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Stockholders. He shall have, under the control of the Board, general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation. He shall at all times see that all resolutions or determinations of the Board are carried into effect. He may from time to time appoint, remove or change members of and discharge one or more advisory committees, each of which shall consist of such number of persons (who may, but need not, be directors or officers of the Corporation), and have such advisory duties, as he shall determine. He shall perform the duties incident to the office of the Chief Executive Officer and all such other duties as are specified in these By-laws or as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
     SECTION 8. . The President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
President
     SECTION 9. . The Board shall, if it so determines, elect one or more Vice Presidents (with such additional titles as the Board may prescribe), each of whom shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or such other officer to whom the Vice President reports.
Vice Presidents
     SECTION 10. . The General Counsel shall be the chief legal officer of the Corporation and the head of its legal department. He shall, in general, perform the duties incident to the office of General Counsel and all such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer.
General Counsel
     SECTION 11. . The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of all funds and securities of the Corporation, shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation, shall deposit all funds of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated pursuant to these By-laws, shall
Treasurer
receive, and give receipts for, moneys due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever, shall disburse the funds of the Corporation and shall render to all regular meetings of the Board, or whenever the Board may require, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer. He shall, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and all such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or such other officer to whom the Treasurer reports.
     SECTION 12. . The Secretary shall, if present, act as secretary of all meetings of the Board, the Executive Committee and other committees of the Board and the Stockholders and shall have the duty to record the proceedings of such meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose. He shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with these By-laws and as required by law, shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix and attest the seal to all documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its seal. He shall, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and all such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or such other officer to whom the Secretary reports.
Secretary
      SECTION 13. . The Controller shall have control of all the books of account of the Corporation, shall keep a true and accurate record of all property owned by it, its debts and of its revenues and expenses, shall keep all accounting records of the Corporation (other than the accounts of receipts and disbursements and those relating to the deposit or custody of funds and securities of the Corporation, which shall be kept by the Treasurer) and shall render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation. He shall, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Controller and all such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or such other officer to whom the Controller reports.
Controller
      SECTION 14. . If required by the Board, any officer of the Corporation shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety or sureties as the Board may require.
Bonds of Officers
      SECTION 15. . The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that the Chief Executive Officer may fix or delegate to others the authority to fix the salaries of any agents appointed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Compensation
     SECTION 16. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to appoint, prescribe the terms of office, the responsibilities and duties and salaries of, and remove, the officers of the operating companies or divisions other than those who are officers of the Corporation.
Officers of Operating Companies or Divisions
     SECTION 1. . The Board may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to enter into any contract or to execute and deliver any instrument, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances;
Contracts
and, unless so authorized by the Board, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or for any amount.
     SECTION 2. . All checks, drafts, bills of exchange or other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be authorized by the Board, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances.
Checks, etc
     SECTION 3. . No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation, and no negotiable paper shall be issued in its name, unless authorized by the Board, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances. All bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation issued for such loans shall be made, executed and delivered as the Board shall authorize, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances.
Loans
     SECTION 4. . All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as may be selected by or in the manner designated by the Board. The Board or its designees may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these By-laws, as may be deemed expedient.
Deposits
     SECTION 1. . The shares of the Corporation may be represented by certificates or may be uncertificated. Each Stockholder shall be entitled to have, in such form as shall be approved by the Board, a certificate or certificates signed by the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary representing the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation owned by such Stockholder. Any or all of the signatures on any such certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any such certificate shall have ceased to be such before such certificate is issued, such certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar had been such at the date of its issue. Absent a specific request for such a certificate by the registered owner or transferee thereof, all shares may be uncertificated upon the original issuance thereof by the Corporation or upon surrender of the certificate representing such shares to the Corporation or its transfer agent.
Stock Certificates and Uncertificated Shares
     SECTION 2. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare or cause to have prepared, at least 10 days before every meeting of Stockholders, a complete list of the Stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each Stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each Stockholder. Such list
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
shall be open to the examination of any Stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any Stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
     SECTION 3. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the Stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 2 of this Article VII or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of Stockholders.
Stock Ledger
     SECTION 4. . Transfers of shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be registered on the stock record of the Corporation, and if requested by the registered owner or transferee thereof, a new certificate shall be issued to the person entitled thereto, upon presentation and surrender, with a request to register transfer, of the certificate or certificates representing the shares properly endorsed by the holder of record or accompanied by a separate document signed by the holder of record containing an assignment or transfer of the shares or a power to assign or transfer the shares or upon presentation of proper transfer instructions from the holder of record of uncertificated shares. The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue and transfer of certificates representing shares of the capital stock of the Corporation.
Transfers of Capital Stock
     SECTION 5. . The Corporation may issue uncertificated shares, or if requested by the registered owner, a new certificate or cause a new certificate to be issued, in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed. The Corporation may require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost Certificates
     SECTION 6. In order that the Corporation may determine the Stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting. A determination of Stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. In order that the Corporation may determine the Stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the Stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to such action.
Fixing of Record Date.
     SECTION 7. . Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of a certificate representing shares of capital stock of the Corporation or of proper transfer instructions with respect to uncertificated shares, the Corporation may treat the registered owner of such shares as the person exclusively entitled to vote, to receive dividends, to receive notifications, and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of an owner of such shares, except as otherwise provided by law.
Registered Owners
     SECTION 8. . The Corporation will seek shareowner approval prior to its adoption of a Rights Plan, unless the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties and with the concurrence of a majority of its independent directors, determines that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interests of the Stockholders of the Corporation to adopt a Rights Plan without delay. If a Rights Plan is adopted by the Corporation without prior approval of the Stockholders of the Corporation, such plan must provide that it shall expire unless ratified by the Stockholders of the Corporation within one year of adoption. For purposes of this by-law, the term "Rights Plan" refers generally to any plan providing for the distribution of preferred stock, rights, warrants, options or debt instruments to the Stockholders of the Corporation, designed to deter non-negotiated takeovers by conferring certain rights on the Stockholders of the Corporation upon the occurrence of a "triggering event" such as a tender offer or third party acquisition of a specified percentage of stock.
Rights Plans
     The Corporation's fiscal year shall coincide with the calendar year.
     The Corporation's seal shall be circular in form and shall include the words "Honeywell International Inc., Delaware, 1985, Seal."
     Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or Stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
     These By-laws or any of them may be amended or supplemented in any respect at any time, either (a) at any meeting of Stockholders, provided that any amendment or supplement proposed to be acted upon at any such meeting shall have been described or referred to in the notice of such meeting, or (b) at any meeting of the Board, provided that any amendment or supplement proposed to be acted upon at any such meeting shall have been described or referred to in the notice of such meeting or an announcement with respect thereto shall have been made at the last previous Board meeting.
     SECTION 1. . In case of an attack on the United States or on a locality in which the Corporation conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of the Board or the Stockholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster, or during the existence of any catastrophe, or other similar emergency condition, as a result of which a quorum of the Board or a committee thereof cannot readily be convened for action in accordance with the provisions of the By-laws, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of an Emergency Board of Directors (hereinafter called the Emergency Board) established in accordance with Section 2 of this Article XII.
Emergency Board of Directors
     SECTION 2. . The Emergency Board shall consist of at least three of the following persons present or available at the Emergency Corporate Headquarters determined according to Section 5 of this Article XII: (i) those persons who were directors at the time of the attack or other event mentioned in Section 1 of this Article XII, and (ii) any other persons appointed by such directors to the extent required to provide a quorum at any meeting of the Board. If there are no such directors present or available at the Emergency Corporate Headquarters, the Emergency Board shall consist of the three highest-ranking officers or employees of the Corporation present or available and any other persons appointed by them.
Membership of Emergency Board of Directors
     SECTION 3. . The Emergency Board will have the same powers as those granted to the Board in these By-laws, but will not be bound by any requirement of these By-laws which a majority of the Emergency Board believes impracticable under the circumstances.
Powers of the Emergency Board
     SECTION 4. . At such time as it is practicable to do so the Emergency Board shall call a meeting of Stockholders for the purpose of electing directors. Such meeting will be held at a time and place to be fixed by the Emergency Board and pursuant to such notice to Stockholders as it is deemed practicable to give. The Stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum.
Stockholders' Meeting
     SECTION 5. . Emergency Corporate Headquarters shall be at such location as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall determine prior to the attack or other event, or if not so determined, at such place as the Emergency Board may determine.
Emergency Corporate Headquarters
     SECTION 6. . No officer, director or employee acting in accordance with the provisions of this Article XII shall be liable except for willful misconduct.
Limitation of Liability


