FILE:HON/HON-8K-20110722074526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
ITEM 2.02 .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
EARNINGS RELEASE.
          Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding second quarter earnings on Friday, July 22, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire on Friday, July 22, 2011 at approximately 7:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (631) 291-4830 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
          Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its second quarter earnings on July 22, 2011, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01 .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
HONEYWELL REPORTS SECOND QUARTER SALES UP 15% TO
$9.1 BILLION AND EARNINGS PER SHARE UP 40% TO $1.02
 
Sales Including $234 Million of Discontinued Operations - $9.3 Billion, High End of Previous Range
CPG Moved to Discontinued Operations - Divestiture Expected to Close in Q3
8% Organic Growth Driven by New Products, Emerging Region Growth, and Strong End Markets
Confident in 2011 Outlook - Raising EPS Guidance to $3.85-4.00, Up 28-33% vs. 2010 Proforma EPS
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., July 22, 2011 -- Honeywell () today announced second quarter 2011 sales of $9.1 billion, up 15% versus $7.9 billion in the second quarter of 2010, excluding $234 million from its discontinued Consumer Products Group (CPG) operations in 2011 and $235 million in 2010. Earnings per share were up 40% in the second quarter to $1.02 versus $0.73 in the second quarter last year, which reflects income from discontinued operations of $0.02 in both the second quarter of 2011 and 2010. Cash flow from operations was $1,138 million and free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) was $973 million, compared to $1,090 million and $975 million, respectively, in the second quarter last year. Honeywell has received all necessary regulatory approvals for the previously announced sale of CPG, which is expected to close in the third quarter. The table below shows a reconciliation of continuing and discontinued operations.
NYSE: HON
 
Honeywells strong second quarter performance reflects terrific execution and continued momentum in our key end markets, contributing to our upside performance in the first half of 2011, said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. The sales growth were seeing reflects our extensive innovation pipeline and increasing presence in high growth regions. We had particularly robust growth in the Aerospace commercial aftermarket, and our short-cycle businesses such as Advanced Materials, ACS Products, and Turbo Technologies continued to perform well.
 
We expect good organic growth to continue in the second half of 2011, continued Cote. Favorable global macro trends like safety, security, energy, and globalization combined with our continued investments in new technologies, high growth regions, and our process initiatives will enable the company to continue to grow and outperform now and over the long-term.
 
Q2'11 Results - 2
Honeywell now expects 2011 sales of $36.1-36.7 billion, an increase of 12-14% over 2010, which excludes CPG sales now reported in discontinued operations in both periods; and earnings in the range of $3.85-4.00 per share (including discontinued operations) versus a previous estimate of $3.80-3.95 per share, an increase of 28-33% over 2010 proforma EPS of $3.00 (in each case, this excludes any mark-to-market pension adjustments). 2010 reported earnings were $2.59 per share. The company also reaffirmed that it expects free cash flow of $3.5-3.7 billion, excluding any U.S. pension contributions in 2011 (cash flow from operations of $3.3-3.5 billion including $1 billion of pension contributions made to date).
 
Recent Highlights
 
Aerospace
       
Sales were up 6% compared with the second quarter of 2010, primarily due to strong increases in the Commercial Aftermarket and marginally higher Defense and Space sales, slightly offset by amounts recognized for payments to Business and General Aviation (BGA) OE customers for pre-production costs.
       
Segment profit was up 2% and segment margins were down 70 bps to 16.0%, primarily due to the BGA OE payments discussed above, which unfavorably impacted margins by 110 basis points year-over-year, and higher R&D investments, partially offset by volume, favorable mix, and productivity net of inflation.
       
Honeywell won a contract valued at more than $70 million to provide Auxiliary Power Units (APUs) for Hainan Airlines fleet of A320 aircraft. The APUs will be delivered over three years, beginning in 2012. As part of the agreement, Honeywell will also provide repair and overhaul services of APUs on other existing aircraft.
Honeywell and Safran announced the development of green electric taxi capabilities for new and existing commercial jets. Honeywells APUs and Safrans electric motors will be used in the development of this new hybrid system. Honeywells APU generator will power electrical motors in the aircrafts wheels without using main engines during aircraft ground operations, saving the airlines millions in fuel costs and slashing carbon and other emissions created during runway taxi operations.
       
Honeywell Technology Solutions, Inc. (HTSI) won a five-year, $38 million contract with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to maintain security systems at more than 1,000 locations in the agencys Air Traffic Organization (ATO) Air Traffic Systems Branch. HTSI will provide corrective maintenance for security systems at FAA locations across the country, including air traffic control facilities and national airspace navigation, surveillance, and communication sites. The corrective maintenance contract includes security equipment such as video surveillance, physical access control equipment, intrusion detection, and barrier arms.
       
 
Automation and Control Solutions
       
Sales were up 20%, compared with the second quarter of 2010, with 8% growth from acquisitions, net of divestitures, 6% organic growth due to the general industrial recovery, new product introductions, emerging region strength, and favorable macro trends such as energy demand and energy efficiency, and the 6% impact from favorable foreign exchange.
        
Segment profit was up 24% and segment margins increased 40 bps to 12.8% driven by higher volumes and project sales, partially offset by material inflation and investment for growth across the portfolio.
       
Building Solutions completed the first phase of energy-efficient building upgrades at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM), which will save the school an estimated $620,000 in annual energy costs. The work is part of a three-phase, $21.7 million energy conservation and
Q2' 11 Results - 3
          
infrastructure renewal program that will improve comfort and efficiency in university facilities while cutting utility costs and greenhouse gas emissions.
       
Process Solutions was selected as the engineering, procurement, and construction contractor by North Refineries Company (NRC) of Iraq to upgrade the automation systems at its refinery in Baiji, Iraq. The $9.6 million project will upgrade NRCs existing control system with Honeywells Experion Process Knowledge System and Safety Manager to improve operational efficiency, reliability, and safety at the refinery.
       
Securitylaunched Total Connect 2.0, a new technology platform for its popular Total Connect service that allows home and business owners to remotely manage their security systems and view live video via personal computers, smart phones, tablets, and other web-enabled devices. Later this year, Honeywell will introduce Tuxedo Touch, a new line of color graphic touchscreen keypads that will further strengthen the companys Connected Home offering.  These new touchscreens will extend the capabilities of Honeywells industry-leading VISTA security systems through new home automation and energy management capabilities, enabling the control of devices such as thermostats, electronic locks, lighting modules, and window shades.
 
Transportation Systems
      
Sales were up 26% compared with the second quarter of 2010, due to foreign exchange, higher passenger and commercial vehicle Turbo volumes globally, new platform launches, and higher European diesel penetration.
       
Segment profit was up 45% and segment margins increased 160 bps to 13.0%, primarily driven by higher volumes and increased productivity, offset by material inflation.
      
Honeywell Turbo Technologies was awarded new platform wins with customers including Caterpillar, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Mazda, Tata, Toyota, and Volkswagen, estimated at approximately $600 million in revenue throughout the life of the programs. The platforms span the European, Asian, and U.S. markets for both gasoline and diesel passenger and commercial vehicle applications and are expected to launch beginning in 2012. Year-to-date platform wins are estimated at approximately $1 billion in revenue throughout the life of the programs. 
      
Honeywell Turbo Technologies announced the launch of several turbocharger technologies at the 2011 Shanghai Auto Show that were developed in China specifically for the Chinese market. The new Honeywell turbo innovations supported both gasoline and diesel applications and were featured on the Chinese-made Chery 2.0L G5 and JACs 2.0L Refine and 1.9L Rein models. China is the worlds fastest growing market for turbochargers with anticipated growth of more than 20% in 2011 versus 2010.
 
Specialty Materials
       
Sales were up 12% compared with the second quarter of 2010, resulting from improved global end markets, commercial excellence, and new product applications in the Advanced Materials business, coupled with strong UOP growth.
       
Segment profit was up 31% and segment margins increased 300 bps to 20.0% due to higher sales and licensing revenues, commercial excellence, and cost productivity, partially offset by raw material inflation.
       
Honeywell embarked on a new world first in alternative energy use as its Honeywell Green Jet Fuelpowered a Gulfstream jet across the Atlantic using a 50/50 blend of petroleum-based jet fuel and camelina-derived green jet fuel and landing in Paris, France.   The fuel meets all specifications for flight without any modifications to the aircraft or engine.   Honeywells historic transatlantic green jet fuel flight closely followed the route taken by Charles Lindbergh in his famous first flight across the Atlantic to Le Bourget Field in Paris.  Honeywell Green Jet Fuel was also used in a Boeing 747-8 freighter flight across the Atlantic.   ASTM International, a key global standards body, has recently given provisional approval for the use of green jet fuel in commercial flights, and full approval is expected this month.
TM
Q2'11 Results - 4
       
UOP announced that Chinas Wison (Nanjing) Clean Energy Company Ltd. has selected its technology to convert methanol into building blocks for chemical products at a coal chemical complex in China. The project will be the first commercial-scale installation of UOPs advanced methanol-to-olefins (MTO) solution, which allows petrochemical producers to use methanol from natural gas or coal, instead of petroleum, to produce high yields of high-value plastics and petrochemicals. This solution, allows producers in countries with limited supplies of crude oil, but plentiful quantities of coal or natural gas, to produce high-value petrochemicals.
       
Fluorine Products announced that it has tripled production capacity at its Buffalo Research Lab in Buffalo, N.Y. for its low-global-warming-potential product HFO-1234ze to meet the growing global need for the material. The product is used in multiple foam and aerosol applications. It was achieved through equipment upgrades and overall productivity improvements during the
last 18 months. 
 
Acquisitions
       
Honeywell signed a definitive agreement to acquire EMS Technologies, Inc., a leading provider of connectivity solutions for mobile networking, rugged mobile computers, and satellite communications. The acquisition will enhance Honeywells existing capabilities in rugged mobile computing technologies within its Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) business and satellite communications within its Aerospace business. EMSs $181 million Global Resource Management (GRM) division provides highly ruggedized mobile computing products and services for use in transportation, logistics, and workforce management settings as well as secure satellite-based asset tracking and messaging technology for search and rescue, warehousing, and field force automation environments. Through its $174 million Aviation division, EMS provides terminals, antennas, in-cabin network devices, rugged data storage, and surveillance applications predominantly for use on aircraft. Honeywell expects the tender offer for EMSs outstanding shares to be completed in the third quarter.
 
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 9:30 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (631) 291-4830 a few minutes before the 9:30 a.m. EDT start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywells investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the Investor Relations section of the companys Website (). Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 12:30 p.m. EDT, July 22, until midnight, July 29, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 68707283.
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
 
Honeywell International () is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywells shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit
www.honeywell.com
www.honeywellnow.com.
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
 # # # 
Q2'11 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q2'11 Results - 6
(1) Dollars in millions, except per share amount (2) Dollars in billions, except per share amount
Q2'11 Results - 7
(A) Equity income/(loss) of affiliated companies is included in Segment Profit
(B) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Q2'11 Results - 8
Q2'11 Results - 9
Q2'11 Results - 10
(1) Represents cash contributions to date.
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


