FILE:HON/HON-8K-20111021071020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT  October 21, 2011
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
honeywell international inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
 
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 
[ ]Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02  .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding third quarter earnings on Friday, October 21, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire on Friday, October 21, 2011 at approximately 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the Investor Relations section of the companys website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
(631) 291-4830
 
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter earnings on October 21, 2011, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
 
 
ITEM 9.01  .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)      Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
News Release
 
Contacts:
 
HONEYWELLS THIRD QUARTER SALES UP 14% TO $9.3 BILLION
AND EARNINGS UP 45% TO $1.10 PER SHARE
 
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., October 21, 2011 -- Honeywell () today announced:
NYSE: HON
 
          
3Q11 sales were up 14% to $9.3 billion versus $8.1 billion in 3Q10
-
      
8% organic growth reflects continued strength in end markets
          
3Q11 earnings of $1.10 per share, an increase of 45% over $0.76 in 3Q10
-
      
Segment profit growth and margin expansion in all segments
-
      
Includes $0.04 benefit from lower tax rate; tax rate favorability expected to be offset in 4Q11
-
      
Includes $0.33 repositioning and other actions funded by the gain on sale of the divested Consumer Products Group (CPG) business ($0.23, discontinued operations) and OPEB curtailment ($0.10) in the quarter, which will better position the company for 2012 and beyond
       
3Q11 cash flow from operations of $0.7 billion, includes $400 million cash pension contribution
-
      
3Q11 free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) of $884 million, excludes $400 million cash pension contribution
 
The company is raising its 2011 sales and EPS outlook and now expects:
          
2011 sales of $36.5 - 36.7 billion, up approximately 13% over 2010
-
      
Excludes the divested CPG business, treated as discontinued operations
          
2011 proforma earnings per share of $4.00 - 4.05, up 33 - 35% over 2010
-
      
Mark-to-market pension adjustments in both periods excluded
          
2011 free cash flow guidance of approximately $3.5 billion, prior to any cash pension contribution
- MORE -
 
Q311 Results - 2
 
Honeywells strong third quarter results are a continuation of the momentum weve seen across our businesses in 2011, said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. Our third quarter sales growth reflects a particularly robust Commercial Aerospace upcycle, with growth in both original equipment and aftermarket sales. It also highlights the companys extensive innovation pipeline and increasing presence in high growth regions in all our businesses. Our long-cycle backlog continues at near record levels, with sustained strong orders growth particularly at UOP, ACS Solutions, and Commercial Aerospace. Further, our short-cycle businesses, such as Turbo Technologies, Advanced Materials, and ACS Products are performing well overall.
Despite signals of slower economic growth, we expect positive organic growth to continue the rest of this year and into 2012, concluded Cote. The repositioning actions we took in the third quarter, funded by non-operational gains, better position our businesses for 2012 and beyond. These repositioning tailwinds, combined with our great positions in good industries, execution track record, and disciplined playbook, will be keys to our continued outperformance.
 
Segment Highlights
Aerospace
       
Sales were up 8% compared with the third quarter of 2010, primarily due to 20% growth in Commercial original equipment and aftermarket volumes, partially offset by lower military and government services sales.
       
Segment profit was up 16% and segment margin increased 120 bps to 18.2%, primarily due to increased volume, favorable mix, and productivity net of inflation, partially offset by higher research and development costs.
       
Honeywell has been chosen by Air China to provide a comprehensive suite of avionics components for its new fleet of 30 B737NG aircraft. Air China also selected Honeywells SmartRunway on all of its future incoming aircraft.
       
Honeywell was selected by Tibet Airlines to provide technology for high altitude transportation routes.  Honeywell will also become the sole provider of auxiliary power units (APUs) and aftermarket service and support for Tibet Airlines A319 current fleet of nine aircraft with an option for an additional nine aircraft over the life of the contract.
       
Honeywell won a five-year, $450 million contract with NASAs Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) to provide Ground Systems and Mission Operations (GSMO) services for the agencys fleet of scientific research satellites. Honeywell will work with GSFC to help extend the life of existing research satellites and increase optimization for new satellites that will support greater scientific space research activities in the future.
       
Honeywell received FAA certification for its SmartTraffic system that will allow aircraft to change their altitudes during transoceanic routes and other areas not controlled by radar, enabling airlines to save millions of dollars in annual fuel costs.  With SmartTraffic, airlines will have the capability to significantly increase their flight efficiency and routing, while substantially reducing their operating costs. 
 
 
Automation and Control Solutions
       
Sales were up 14%, compared with the third quarter of 2010, with 6% growth from acquisitions net of divestitures, 4% impact from favorable foreign exchange and 4% organic growth due to higher Products volumes and Solutions sales. ACS continues to benefit from new product introductions, emerging region expansion, and favorable macro trends such as safety, security, and energy efficiency.
- MORE -
Q311 Results - 3
 
       
Segment profit was up 15% and segment margins increased 20 bps to 13.8% driven by higher volumes and project sales, partially offset by inflation and investment for growth across the portfolio.
       
Building Solutions was awarded a $20.5 million contract at Heathrow Airports new Terminal 2 in London to provide an integrated fire safety, public address, and voice alarm system that will help ensure the more than 20 million passengers expected to pass through the terminal have a safe and comfortable travel experience.
       
Process Solutions was awarded a $2.5 million contract by PetroChina Company Limited in Dalian, China for an integrated process control system in a liquid natural gas (LNG) facility.  The contract expands Honeywells position in the highly competitive LNG marketplace in China.  Honeywell will provide its Experion Process Knowledge System (PKS), Safety Instrumented Systems, Operator Training Systems, and fire and gas solutions to fully automate the facility, optimize the maintenance and testing of process safety instruments, and improve overall reliability.  The facility will store six million tons of LNG and supply 8.4 billion cubic meters annually.
       
Honeywell Life Safety was selected by the Department of Fire & Rescue in Prince William County, Virginia to provide personal protective equipment for 600 fire fighters and more than 1,000 volunteers.  The five-year deal valued at up to $3 million includes Morning Pride coats, pants, rubber boots, and hoods, as well as a cleaning and care contract. Life Safety was also selected by Landis+Gyr to provide up to 4,000 Honeywell Optima Plus gas detectors, valued at a potential $4 million, for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
 
Transportation Systems
       
Sales were up 22% compared with the third quarter of 2010, due to higher global passenger and commercial vehicle Turbo volumes overall, new platform launches, and 9% favorable impact from foreign exchange.
       
Segment profit was up 32% and segment margins increased 90 bps to 12.6%, primarily driven by higher volumes and increased productivity, partially offset by inflation.
       
Honeywell Turbo Technologies launched more than 20 new turbo applications in the quarter on gasoline and diesel powertrains for both passenger and commercial vehicle applications around the world.  Honeywell expects to launch close to 100 new vehicle applications this year as global manufacturers turn to engine downsizing and turbocharging to meet increasing regulatory requirements and satisfy customers.
       
Honeywell highlighted innovative turbocharging technologies at the 2011 Frankfurt Motor Show, including: a two-stage turbocharger for Audis 3L diesel engine, the most powerful 3L diesel in the market; the small twinscroll turbocharger for BMWs 1.6L gasoline engine, which set a new benchmark in driveability for small gas engines; and the high temperature, ball bearing turbo for the Mercedes 3L diesel engine, which enables both power and fuel economy.
 
Specialty Materials
       
Sales were up 25% compared with the third quarter of 2010, resulting from strong UOP project sales and catalyst growth, favorable price over raws spreads, the phenol plant acquisition, and new product applications in Advanced Materials.
       
Segment profit was up 31% and segment margins increased 80 bps to 17.3% due to favorable price over raws spreads, higher project sales and catalyst growth, and productivity, partially offset by inflation and the unfavorable margin impact from the phenol plant acquisition.
 
- MORE -
 
Q311 Results - 4
 
       
Fluorine Products announced it has signed an agreement with Chinas Sinochem Group, forming a 50/50 joint venture to produce and sell blowing agents for energy efficient foam insulation in China. The venture, which is subject to Chinese government approval, would produce HFC-245fa, a non-ozone-depleting rigid foam blowing agent used in insulation for appliances, construction, transportation, and other applications where maximum energy efficiency is required. The venture is expected to begin production in late 2013.
       
Honeywells UOP began construction of a biofuels demonstration unit in Hawaii that will convert forest residuals, algae, and other cellulosic biomass into green transportation fuels. Backed by a $25 million U.S. Department of Energy award, the Honeywell UOP Integrated Biorefinery will upgrade biomass into high-quality renewable gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. These renewable fuels are drop-in replacements for existing petroleum-based fuels and do not require changes to the distribution network or the engines they power.
 
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 9:30 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (631) 291-4830 a few minutes before the 9:30 a.m. EDT start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywells investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the Investor Relations section of the companys Website (). Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 12:30 p.m. EDT, October 21, until midnight, October 28, by dialing (404) 537-3406. The access code is 96818244.
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
 
 
Honeywell International () is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywells shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit .
www.honeywell.com
www.honeywellnow.com
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
 
# # #
Q3 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q3 Results - 6
(A) Equity income/(loss) of affiliated companies is included in Segment Profit
(B) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Q3 Results - 7
Q3 Results - 8
Q3 Results - 9
(1) Represents cash contribution to date.
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
Q3 Results - 10
(1) Dollars in millions, except per share amount (2) Dollars in billions, except per share amount
We believe EPS, excluding mark-to-market pension expense, is a metric that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends.
EPS utilizes weighted average shares outstanding and the effective tax rate for the period. Mark-to-market uses a blended tax rate of 32.3% for 2010.


