FILE:HON/HON-8K-20110420171434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT  April 20, 2011
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
honeywell international inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
 
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 
[   ]Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding first quarter earnings on Thursday, April 21, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire on Wednesday, April 20, 2011 at approximately 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (631) 291-4830 or through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the Investor Relations section of the companys website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
 
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter earnings on April 20, 2011, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
 
 
ITEM 9.01 .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d) Exhibit 99
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

     
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., April 20, 2011 -- Honeywell (
NYSE: HON
) today announced first quarter 2011 sales were up 15% to $8.9 billion versus $7.8 billion in 2010. Excluding the net impact from acquisitions and foreign exchange, sales were up a record 11% organically with stronger than anticipated growth across each of the company's businesses. Earnings per share were up 40% to $0.88 versus $0.63 in the first quarter last year. Free cash flow (cash flow from operations less Capex) in the first quarter was $0.4 billion excluding pension contributions (cash flow from operations of a negative $0.4 billion due to a $1 billion contribution to the company's U.S. pension fund).
     
"Honeywell is executing well and delivering terrific results, highlighted by another quarter of record organic sales growth, margin expansion, and higher than expected earnings per share," said Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote. "I'm very pleased with our start to the year and the continued momentum we're seeing across the portfolio. We had a particularly robust finish to the quarter with strength in our short-cycle businesses, as well as growth in commercial aerospace spares and the residential and commercial retrofit businesses. Orders in our short-cycle businesses have now increased eight consecutive quarters and our long-cycle backlog continues at near record levels. As a result of our strong first quarter and continued favorable outlook for our major markets, we're raising our 2011 sales and EPS guidance."
     
Honeywell now expects 2011 sales of $36.0 -36.6 billion, up from $35.0 -36.0 billion, reflecting an increase of 8-10% over 2010; and earnings in the range of $3.80 -3.95 per share versus a previous estimate of $3.60 -3.80 per share, an increase of 27-32% over 2010 proforma EPS of $3.00 (in each case, this excludes any mark-to-market pension adjustments). The company also reaffirmed that it expects free cash flow of $3.5 -3.7 billion excluding any U.S. pension contributions in 2011 (cash flow from operations of $3.3 -3.5 billion including pension contributions).
Q1'11 Results - 2
First Quarter Segment Highlights
Aerospace
Sales were up 8% compared with the first quarter of 2010, primarily due to strong increases in
Commercial OEM and aftermarket volumes, slightly offset by lower military and government
services sales.
Segment profit was up 13% and segment margin increased 80 bps to 17.3%, primarily due to
increased volume, favorable mix, and productivity net of inflation.
Honeywell SmartRunway and SmartLanding flight safety upgrades  which utilize the
industry's most trusted terrain and runway information (Honeywell's Enhanced Ground
Proximity Warning System)  are being installed in more than 245 new aircraft and 171 in-
service aircraft across several fleets operating in North America and Asia. The Honeywell
systems help break the chain of events that can lead to a runway excursion or incursion by
providing timely aural and/or visual advisories to the flight crew.
Honeywell has renewed a five-year contract with the U.S. Army valued at $153 million to supply,
manage, and provide logistical process improvements to the Corpus Christi Army Depot for the
repair and overhaul of Honeywell's T-55 engine that powers the Chinook helicopter.
Honeywell and Aspen Avionics are collaborating to deliver a NextGen-ready, multi-function, and
touchscreen cockpit display to general aviation customers. The two companies have completed a
development agreement to bring Honeywell's open-interface Bendix/King KSN 770 to market
before the end of 2011.
Automation and Control Solutions
Sales were up 17%, compared with the first quarter of 2010, with 9% growth from net
acquisitions, 7% organic growth due to general industrial recovery and new product introductions
in all businesses and regions, execution of global industrial infrastructure projects, and the 1%
impact from favorable foreign exchange.
Segment profit was up 19% and segment margin increased 20 bps to 12.6% driven by higher
volumes and project sales, partially offset by material inflation and investment for growth across
the portfolio.
Honeywell Building Solutions will implement China's first commercial smart grid demand-side
management pilot and feasibility study. The project is part of the China-U.S. Energy Cooperation
Program (ECP), initiated between the U.S. Trade and Development Agency and the National
Energy Administration of China. The results of the demonstration will be used to determine the
feasibility of broader deployment of smart grid solutions in China.
Honeywell Process Solutions signed a global five-year agreement to be a Main Automation
Contractor (MAC) for Shell. As a MAC, Honeywell will design automation and safety systems
that will help Shell meet its customers' energy demands in economically and environmentally
responsible ways. Honeywell has served as a MAC on hundreds of Shell projects for more than
three decades. Currently, Honeywell is working on a number of Shell's largest projects, including
its new gasto-liquids (GTL) plant in Qatar and the expansion of its Port Arthur Refinery.
Honeywell Security Group announced the latest in its LYNX self-contained alarm system and
also launched Honeywell Software Development Kit (HSDK), which helps integrators tie
together commercial security technology into larger business automation systems, eliminating the
need to manually write code and configure servers. Honeywell Scanning & Mobility launched
Voyager
1200g single-line laser scanner that excels at reading poor quality and damaged bar
codes; and Dolphin
99EX mobile computer, which is designed to increase productivity and
reduce operating costs.
Q1'11 Results - 3
Transportation Systems
Sales were up 19% compared with the first quarter of 2010, due to higher Turbo volumes
globally, robust new platform launches, higher European diesel penetration, and higher sales of
friction materials.
Segment profit was up 50% and segment margin increased 240 bps to 12.0% driven by higher
volumes and increased productivity, partially offset by material inflation.
Honeywell launched more than 20 new turbo applications in the first quarter on gasoline and
diesel powertrains for both passenger and commercial vehicle applications. In 2011, Honeywell
expects to launch its turbochargers on more than 100 new vehicle applications in China, Europe,
India, Brazil, and the U.S.
Honeywell announced that it would build a new manufacturing plant in Presov, Slovakia to
produce turbochargers for light vehicle and light commercial vehicle applications. The additional
capacity will help address the rapid increase in turbo adoption worldwide, which Honeywell
expects will nearly double the turbo segment in the next five years. The new plant is expected to
be operational by 2012 and will supplement its global footprint.
Over the last three years, Honeywell has secured nearly 50% of all new turbocharger application
opportunities for light vehicles and commercial vehicles in all regions, which it expects will total
over $8 billion over the life of the programs.
Specialty Materials
Sales were up 19% compared with the first quarter of 2010, resulting from improved global
markets, commercial excellence, and new product applications in the Advanced Materials
business, coupled with strong UOP growth.
Segment profit was up 67% and segment margin increased 610 bps to 21% due to higher sales,
commercial excellence, and cost productivity, partially offset by raw material inflation.
Honeywell's new low-global-warming refrigerant HFO-1234yf has received final approval from
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for use in motor vehicle air conditioning systems. The
new refrigerant has global-warming-potential that is 99.7% less than the refrigerant currently used
in most car and light truck air conditioning systems today. Use of the refrigerant can help vehicle
manufacturers meet new federal standards for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from light-duty
motor vehicles.
Honeywell's UOP announced collaboration with the King Fahd University of Petroleum and
Minerals in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, for the development of catalytic processes for petrochemicals
production. The five-year agreement will allow university professors and researchers to
collaborate with company scientists on catalyst development and processes for aromatics
production.
Honeywell's Envergent Technologies joint venture will provide biofuels technology to Crane &
Co. to convert biomass feedstock into renewable oil to heat and power the Massachusetts facility
where Crane produces paper used for U.S. currency. We were also selected to perform
engineering design for a project that will use the joint venture's technology to convert palm
biomass to renewable heat and electricity.
     
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call Thursday, April 21, 2011 starting at 9:30 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (631) 291-4830 a few minutes before the 9:30 a.m. EDT start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (
http://www.honeywell.com/investor)
. Investors can access a replay of the investor call starting at 12:30 p.m. EDT, April 21, until midnight, April 28, by dialing (706) 645-9291. The access code is 52965295.
Q1'11 Results - 4
Honeywell International (
www.honeywell.com
) is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit
www.honeywellnow.com
.
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q1'11 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q1'11 Results - 6
Q1'11 Results - 7
Q1'11 Results - 8
Q1'11 Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, or repay debt obligations prior to their maturities. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.


