FILE:HON/HON-8K-20121019064518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
ITEM 2.02 .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
EARNINGS RELEASE.
          Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding third quarter earnings on Wednesday, October 19, 2012 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing (877) 303-4382 through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the "Investor Relations" section of the company's website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
          Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2012 earnings on October 19, 2012, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
ITEM 9.01 .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 
 
News Release
 
 
HONEYWELL REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2012
SALES OF $9.3 BILLION; EPS UP 9% TO $1.20 PER SHARE
 
 
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., October 19, 2012 -- Honeywell () today announced its results for the third quarter of 2012:
NYSE: HON
 
 
Honeywell delivered 2% organic sales growth, strong sales conversion and higher earnings per share in the third quarter, said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. Our balanced mix of long- and short-cycle businesses, combined with growth in new products and continued expansion in high growth regions, offset European weakness, lower demand for products in some of our short-cycle businesses in China and the U.S., and foreign exchange headwinds in the quarter. Further, we maintained strong backlogs with new platform wins across a number of our businesses. We continue to be encouraged by the commercial aerospace outlook, increasing infrastructure spending, and oil and gas investments. These trends, combined with our
Q312 Results - 2
 
great positions in good industries, leverage to other macro-trends like safety and security, energy efficiency, and clean energy generation are expected to drive our continued outperformance. Looking ahead to 2013, we are planning for a continued challenging macro environment, but expect to deliver good growth driven by new products, geographic expansion, and traction on key initiatives. Further, we will remain flexible and adhere to our disciplined focus on cost and productivity.
 
Third quarter 2012 Earnings Per Share (EPS) reflects a 22.7% effective tax rate compared to 23.2% last year. Adjusting for a normalized tax rate of 26.5% in 2011 and 2012, EPS growth would be 8%. The tax rate favorability in the third quarter of this year, representing $0.06 of EPS relative to guidance, is expected to be offset in the fourth quarter, with an estimated full year 2012 effective tax rate of 26.5%.
 
The company is updating its full-year 2012 sales and EPS guidance and now expects:
 
 
 
Third Quarter Segment Performance
 
 
Q312 Results - 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q312 Results - 4
 
 
 
 
Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 9:30 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (877) 303-4382 (domestic) or (631) 291-4830 (international) a few minutes before the 9:30 a.m. EDT start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywells investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available
through
the Investor Relations section of the companys Website
().
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 12:30 p.m. EDT, October 19, until midnight, October 26, dialing (855) 859-2056 (domestic) or (404) 537-3406 (international). The access code is 18261327.
 
 
Honeywell () is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywells shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit .
www.honeywell.com
www.honeywellnow.com
 
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q3'12 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other postretirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q3'12 Results - 6
Q3'12 Results - 7
Q3'12 Results - 8
Q3'12 Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, repay debt obligations prior to their maturities, or make cash pension contributions. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
In reference to free cash flow conversion on page 2, we define free cash flow conversion as free cash flow prior to any NARCO related payments and cash pension contributions divided by net income attributable to Honeywell excluding pension mark to market adjustment.
Q3'12 Results - 10
(A) Included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. (B) Includes repositioning, asbestos, environmental expenses and equity income adjustment
Q3'12 Results - 11
We believe EPS, excluding pension mark to market adjustment and third quarter 2011 repositioning and other actions funded by CPG Gain, is a metric that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends.
EPS utilizes weighted average shares outstanding of 791.6 million and the effective tax rate for the period. Mark to market uses a blended tax rate of 36.9%.


