FILE:HON/HON-8K-20120718074521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
--------------------
 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
DATE OF REPORT  July 18, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
honeywell international inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000
 
 
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02  .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
EARNINGS RELEASE.
 
Honeywell International Inc. will hold its conference call regarding second quarter earnings on Wednesday, July 18, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The earnings release was distributed on PR Newswire approximately an hour and a half prior to the conference call. Interested investors may access the conference call by dialing through a World Wide Web simulcast available at the Investor Relations section of the companys website (http://www.honeywell.com/investor). Related presentation materials will also be posted to the Investor Relations section of the website prior to the conference call. Investors are advised to log on to the website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to allow sufficient time for downloading any necessary software.
(631) 291-4830
Honeywell International Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings on July 18, 2012, which is attached as an exhibit to this report.
second quarter 2012
 
 
ITEM 9.01  .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)       Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
N e w s  R e l e a s e
MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., July 18, 2012  Honeywell () today announced its results for the second quarter of 2012:
NYSE: HON
Total Honeywell
       
* Free Cash Flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) prior to cash pension contributions
          "Honeywell had another terrific quarter, capping off a very strong first half of 2012," said Honeywell Chairman and CEO Dave Cote. "Despite a more challenging macro environment, particularly in Europe, Honeywell delivered strong sales conversion and double-digit earnings growth in the second quarter and executed well against our growth and productivity playbook. Our short cycle businesses, such as ESS and Advanced Materials, were strong in the U.S., and our long cycle businesses continued to grow globally, benefitting from favorable macro trends and strong backlog. As such, we're raising the low end of our 2012 guidance by $0.05, with the expectation of continued margin expansion in the second half driving our strong full-year outlook. Given the
Q2'12 Results -
2
increasingly uncertain global economic environment, we'll remain flexible, but also continue to invest in sustainable growth through seed planting in new products and technologies, geographic expansion, and our key process initiatives, all supporting our Great Positions in Good Industries throughout the world."
The company is updating its full-year 2012 sales and EPS guidance and now expects:
Full-Year Guidance
Second Quarter Segment Performance
Aerospace
Q2'12 Results - 3
Automation and Control Solutions
Performance Materials and Technologies
Transportation Systems
Q2'12 Results - 4
          Honeywell will discuss its results during its investor conference call today starting at 9:00 a.m. EDT. To participate, please dial (631) 291-4830 a few minutes before the 9:00 a.m. EDT start. Please mention to the operator that you are dialing in for Honeywell's investor conference call. The live webcast of the investor call will be available through the "Investor Relations" section of the company's Website (). Investors can access a replay of the conference call from 12:00 p.m. EDT, July 18, until midnight, July 25, by dialing (404) 537-3406. The access code is 77820901.
http://www.honeywell.com/investor
Honeywell () is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes, and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and performance materials. Based in Morris Township, N.J., Honeywell's shares are traded on the New York, London, and Chicago Stock Exchanges. For more news and information on Honeywell, please visit .
www.honeywell.com
www.honeywellnow.com
This release contains certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this release are also subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
Q2'12 Results - 5
(A) Cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts for repositioning and other charges, pension and other post-retirement expense, and stock compensation expense.
Q2'12 Results - 6
          (A) Equity income/(loss) of affiliated companies is included in Segment Profit.
          (B) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Q2'12 Results - 7
Q2'12 Results - 8
Q2'12 Results - 9
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities, less cash expenditures for property, plant and equipment.
We believe that this metric is useful to investors and management as a measure of cash generated by business operations that will be used to repay scheduled debt maturities and can be used to invest in future growth through new business development activities or acquisitions, and to pay dividends, repurchase stock, repay debt obligations prior to their maturities, or make cash pension contributions. This metric can also be used to evaluate our ability to generate cash flow from business operations and the impact that this cash flow has on our liquidity.
Q2'12 Results - 10
(A) Included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. (B) Includes repositioning, asbestos, environmental expense and equity income adjustment.
Q2'12 Results - 11
We believe EPS, excluding pension mark to market adjustment and third quarter 2011 repositioning and other actions funded by CPG Gain, is a metric that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends.
EPS utilizes weighted average shares outstanding of 791.6 million and the effective tax rate for the period. Mark to market uses a blended tax rate of 36.9%.


