FILE:HON/HON-8K-20120405164613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On April 2, 2012, Honeywell entered into a $3.0 billion Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement (the "") with the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders party to the Credit Agreement, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank International PLC, as swing line agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. Commitments under the Credit Agreement can be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.5 billion.
Credit Agreement
The Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. The Credit Agreement amends and restates the previously reported $2.8 billion five year credit agreement dated as of March 31, 2011 (the ""). No borrowings were outstanding at any time under the Prior Agreement. The Credit Agreement includes a $700 million sublimit for the potential issuance of multi currency letters of credit and a EUR200 million sublimit for swing line advances.
Prior Agreement
The Credit Agreement has substantially the same material terms and conditions as the Prior Agreement with an improvement in pricing and an extension of maturity. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement are required to be repaid no later than April 2, 2017, unless such date is extended pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement does not restrict Honeywell's ability to pay dividends, nor does it contain financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary conditions or the occurrence of customary events of default contained in the Credit Agreement would prevent any further borrowings and would generally require the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Such events of default include, among other things, (a) non-payment of Credit Agreement debt, interest or fees; (b) non-compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement covenants; (c) cross-default with other debt in certain circumstances; (d) bankruptcy or insolvency; and (e) defaults on certain obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally, each of the lenders has the right to terminate its commitment to lend additional funds or issue additional letters of credit under the Credit Agreement if any person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of Honeywell's voting stock, or, during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of Honeywell at the beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors.
Revolving credit borrowings under the Credit Agreement would bear interest, at Honeywells option, (A) (1) at a rate equal to the highest of (a) the floating base rate publicly announced by Citibank, N.A., (b) 0.5% above the Federal funds rate or (c) Libor plus 1.00% , plus (2) a margin based on Honeywells credit default swap mid-rate spread and subject to a floor and a cap as set forth in the Credit Agreement (the Applicable Margin) minus 1.00%, provided such margin shall not be less than zero; or (B) at a rate equal to Libor plus the Applicable Margin; or (C) by a competitive bidding procedure.
Honeywell has agreed to pay a commitment fee for the aggregate unused commitment for the Credit Agreement, which is subject to change, based upon a grid determined by Honeywell's long-term debt ratings. The Credit Agreement is not subject to termination based upon a decrease in Honeywell's debt ratings or a Material Adverse Change (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
          The following exhibit is filed as part of this report:
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
SCHEDULES
Schedule I - Commitments
Schedule II Mandatory Cost
Schedule 2.01(b) - Existing Letters of Credit
                    HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the ""), initial issuing banks (the "") and swing line banks (the "") listed on the signature pages hereof, and CITIBANK, N.A. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), CITIBANK INTERNATIONAL PLC, as swing line agent (the "") for the Swing Line Banks (as hereinafter defined), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., BARCLAYS BANK PLC, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA, MORGAN STANLEY MUFG LOAN PARTNERS, LLC and THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, as documentation agents, and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers, hereby agree as follows:
Company
Initial Lenders
Initial Issuing Banks
Initial Swing Line Banks
Citibank
Agent
Swing Line Agent
                    PRELIMINARY STATEMENT.
                    The Company, the lenders parties thereto and Citibank, as agent, were parties to that certain Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 2011 (the ""). Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.01, the Company, the parties hereto and Citibank, as Agent, desire to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement as herein set forth.
Existing Credit Agreement
                    SECTION 1.01. .
Certain Defined Terms
                    As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
          "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
          "" means a Revolving Credit Advance, a Swing Line Advance or a Competitive Bid Advance.
Advance
          "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
          "" means the Agent and the Swing Line Agent.
Agents
          "" means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency, the account of the Sub-Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agent's Account
          "" means any lawful currency other than Dollars and the Major Currencies that is freely transferable and convertible into Dollars.
Alternate Currency
          "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance, the office of such Lender notified by such Lender to the Agent as its Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
          "" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum equal to the Market Rate Spread on the Spread Determination Date in relation to Letters of Credit.
Applicable Letter of Credit Rate
          "" means (a) (i) for Eurocurrency Rate Advances and for Swing Line Advances as of any date, a percentage per annum equal to the Market Rate Spread on the Spread Determination Date in relation to such Advances and (b) for Base Rate Advances as of any date, a rate per annum that is 100 basis points lower than the rate determined in accordance with clause (a) above; that in no event shall the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances be lower than 0.00%.
Applicable Margin
provided
          "" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
          "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.06), and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
          "" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing), converting all non-Dollar amounts into the Dollar Equivalent thereof at such time; , however, that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any L/C Related Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such times.
Available Amount
provided
          "" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
          "" means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.08(a)(i)(A).
Base Rate Advance
          "" means the Company or any Designated Subsidiary, as the context requires.
Borrower
          "" means a Revolving Credit Borrowing, a Swing Line Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing.
Borrowing
          "" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to
Business Day
any Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London and in the country of issue of the currency of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance (or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euros, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open) and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Local Rate Advance, on which banks are open for business in the country of issue of the currency of such Local Rate Advance.
          "" means an interest bearing cash deposit account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon such terms as may be satisfactory to the Agent.
Cash Deposit Account
          "" means that (i) any Person or group of Persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any savings, pension or other benefit plan for the benefit of employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries) which theretofore beneficially owned less than 30% of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Act) of 30% or more in voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or (ii) during any period of twelve consecutive calendar months commencing at the Effective Date, individuals who at the beginning of such twelve-month period were directors of the Company shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Change of Control
Act
          "" means Citibank, N.A.
Citibank
          "" means a Revolving Credit Commitment, a Letter of Credit Commitment or a Swing Line Commitment.
Commitment
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
          "" means an advance by a Lender to any Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing resulting from the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03 and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance, a LIBO Rate Advance or a Local Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Competitive Bid Advance).
Competitive Bid Advance
Type
          "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Competitive Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03.
Competitive Bid Borrowing
          "" means a promissory note of any Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of such Borrower to such Lender resulting from a Competitive Bid Advance made by such Lender to such Borrower.
Competitive Bid Note
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Consenting Lender
          "" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
          "" means, at any time, any Subsidiary the accounts of which are required at that time to be included on a Consolidated basis in the Consolidated financial statements of the Company, assuming that such financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiary
          "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.09 or 2.12.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
          "" means, with respect to any Person: (i) indebtedness of such Person, which is not limited as to recourse to such Person, for borrowed money (whether by loan or the issuance and sale of debt securities) or for the deferred (for 90 days or more) purchase or acquisition price of property or services; (ii) indebtedness or obligations of others which such Person has assumed or guaranteed; (iii) indebtedness or obligations of others secured by a lien, charge or encumbrance on property of such Person whether or not such Person shall have assumed such indebtedness or obligations; (iv) obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit (other than performance letters of credit, except to the extent backing an obligation of any Person which would be Debt of such Person), acceptance facilities, or drafts or similar instruments issued or accepted by banks and other financial institutions for the account of such Person; and (v) obligations of such Person under leases which are required to be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person in accordance with GAAP.
Debt
          "" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
          "" means at any time, subject to Section 2.20(d), (i) any Lender that has failed for two or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance, unless such Lender notifies the Agent and the Company in writing that such failure to comply is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding (each of which conditions precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing) has not been satisfied, (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent or the Company in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder (unless such writing or public statement relates to such Lender's obligation to fund an Advance hereunder and states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that a condition precedent to funding (which condition precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing or public statement) cannot be satisfied), (iii) any Lender that has defaulted on its funding obligations under other loan agreements or credit agreements generally or that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Company in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally (unless such writing or public statement relates to such Lenders'
Defaulting Lender
obligation to fund a Loan hereunder and states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that a condition precedent to funding (which condition precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing or public statement) cannot be satisfied), (iv) any Lender that has, for three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Company, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Company that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Company's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender or its Parent Company. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(d)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders.
          "" means any corporate Subsidiary of the Company designated for borrowing privileges under this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.07.
Designated Subsidiary
          "" means, with respect to any Designated Subsidiary, a letter in the form of Exhibit D hereto signed by such Designated Subsidiary and the Company.
Designation Letter
          "" means a Swing Line Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.08(a)(ii)(B).
Dollar Swing Line Advance
          "" and the "" sign each mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
          "" means, with respect to any Initial Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Company and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
          "" means any Subsidiary whose operations are conducted primarily in the United States excluding any Subsidiary whose assets consist primarily of the stock of Subsidiaries whose operations are conducted outside the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
          "" means March 31, 2011.
Effective Date
          "" means (any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.06(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.06(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
          "" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation,
Environmental Action
(a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
          "" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
          "" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
          "" in Dollars of any Foreign Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Foreign Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Foreign Currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the "Equivalent" in any Foreign Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Foreign Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange such Foreign Currency for Dollars in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
          "" of any Person means any other Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of such Person's controlled group, or under common control with such Person, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
          "" with respect to any Person means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to a Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates within the following 30 days, and the contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of such Plan is required under Section 4043(b)(3) of ERISA (taking into account Section 4043(b)(2) of ERISA) to notify the PBGC that the event is about to occur; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan in a distress termination pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with
ERISA Event
respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates; (g) the determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA; or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, such Plan.
          "" means an escrow established with an independent escrow agent pursuant to an escrow agreement reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Person or Persons asserting the obligation of one or more Borrowers to make a payment to it or them hereunder.
Escrow
          "" means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the EMU legislation.
Euro
          "" means, with respect to any Initial Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurocurrency Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Company and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
          "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
          "" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing on the Reuters Page as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or in the relevant Major Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/32 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or in the relevant Major Currency are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters Page is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency
Eurocurrency Rate
Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.09.
subject
however
          "" means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars or in a Major Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.08(a)(i)(B).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
          "" for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
          "" means a Swing Line Advance denominated in Euro that bears interest as provided in Section 2.08(a)(ii)(A).
Euro Swing Line Advance
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Extension Date
          "" means the Revolving Credit Facility, the Letter of Credit Facility or the Swing Line Facility.
Facility
          "" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code or any amended or successor version to the extent substantively comparable and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
          "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a)(i), which Advance shall be denominated in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency.
Fixed Rate Advance
          "" means any Major Currency or any Alternate Currency.
Foreign Currency
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
          "" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
          "" means, with respect to any Plan, the amount, if any, of its unfunded benefit liabilities, as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA.
Insufficiency
          "" means (a) for each Swing Line Advance comprising part of the same Swing Line Borrowing, one period commencing on the date of such Swing Line Advance and ending on a Business Day with a duration not to exceed five Business Days and (b) for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing and each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower requesting such Borrowing pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Advance or a LIBO Rate Advance shall be one, two, three or six months and, if available to all Lenders, nine or twelve months, as the Borrower requesting the Borrowing may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
          "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Letter of Credit Commitment hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 9.06 so long as such Eligible Assignee expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as the Initial Issuing Bank or Eligible Assignee, as the case may be, shall have a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Issuing Bank
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.07(c)(i).
L/C Related Documents
          "" means that (i) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that a Lender Insolvency Event shall not result solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in such Person by a governmental authority so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such governmental authority) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Person.
Lender Insolvency Event
provided
          "" means, collectively, (i) Initial Lenders, (ii) the Issuing Banks, (iii) the Swing Line Banks (unless the context otherwise requires), (v) each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18 or 2.19 and (v) each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 9.06.
Lenders
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).
Letter of Credit Application
          "" means, with respect to each Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit to any Borrower in (a) the amount set forth opposite the Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Letter
Letter of Credit Commitment
of Credit Commitment" or (b) if such Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.06(c) as such Issuing Bank's "Letter of Credit Commitment", in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.06.
          "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the least of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Letter of Credit Commitments at such time, (b) $700,000,000 and (c) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.06.
Letter of Credit Facility
          "" means, for any Interest Period for all LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing on the Reuters Page as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or in the relevant Foreign Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/32 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or in the relevant Foreign Currency are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to the amount that would be the Reference Banks' respective ratable shares of such Borrowing if such Borrowing were to be a Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters Page is unavailable, the LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.09.
LIBO Rate
subject
however
          "" means a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency and bearing interest based on the LIBO Rate.
LIBO Rate Advance
          "" means any lien, mortgage, pledge, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind.
Lien
          "" means a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in any Foreign Currency sourced from the jurisdiction of issuance of such Foreign Currency and bearing interest at a fixed rate.
Local Rate Advance
          "" means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, lawful currency of Japan and Euros.
Major Currencies
          "" means at any time Lenders holding at least 51% of the then aggregate principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least 51% of the Revolving Credit Commitments; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Majority Lenders at such time the Revolving Credit Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Majority Lenders
provided
          "" means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Swing Line Agent in accordance with Schedule II.
Mandatory Cost
          "" means a rate per annum equal to the credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Company interpolated from the applicable Spread Determination Date to the latest Termination Date (or, if the period from such Spread Determination Date to the latest Termination Date is less than one year, then the one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Company), in each case established on the most recent Spread Determination Date and based on the credit default swap mid-rate spreads specified by Markit, as of the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to such Spread Determination Date, subject to a minimum rate and a maximum rate as determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Market Rate Spread
          If the Company's interpolated credit default swap spread, as specified by Markit is unavailable, the Company and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith (for a period of up to thirty days after such spread becomes unavailable (such thirty-day period, the "")) to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Market Rate Spread. The Applicable Margin at any determination date thereof which falls during the Negotiation Period shall be based upon the then most recently available quote of the Market Rate Spread. If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, the Market Rate Spread at any determination date subsequent to the end of the
Negotiation Period
Negotiation Period shall be a rate per annum equal to the maximum rate applicable from time to time as determined in the immediately preceding paragraph. If the Company's interpolated credit default swap spread again becomes available through Markit, then Market Rate Spread shall be determined on the basis of such credit default swap spread as set forth above.
          "" means Markit Group Ltd. (or any successor).
Markit
          "" means any material adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
          "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrowers to perform their obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
          "" of any Person means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" of any Person means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates and at least one Person other than such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which such Person or any of its ERISA Affiliates could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
          "", as at any particular date of determination, means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, as set forth in the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Net Tangible Assets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
          "" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
Non-Defaulting Lender
          "" means a Revolving Credit Note or a Competitive Bid Note.
Note
                    SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
                    SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed, and all financial computations and determinations pursuant hereto shall be made, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) (""); , , that, if any changes in accounting principles from those used in the preparation of such financial statements have been required by the rules, regulations, pronouncements or opinions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (or successors thereto or agencies with similar functions) and have been adopted by the Company with the agreement of its independent certified public accountants, the Lenders agree to consider a request by the Company to amend this Agreement to take account of such changes.
Accounting Terms
GAAP
provided
however
                    SECTION 2.01. . (a) . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Revolving Credit Advance denominated in a Major Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing), not to exceed such Lender's Unused Commitment. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Major Currency determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Major Currency determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) in excess thereof and shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments; , , that if there is no unused portion of the Commitment of one or more Lenders at the time of any requested Revolving Credit Borrowing such Borrowing shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lender or Lenders who do then have an Unused Commitment ratably according to the aggregate Unused Commitments. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Revolving Credit Borrowing may be made in a Major Currency if, after giving effect to the making of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate amount of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Major Currencies, together with the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate amount of outstanding Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies, would exceed $500,000,000. Within the limits of each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment, any Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Revolving Credit Advances, Letters of Credit and Swing Line Advances
Revolving Credit Advances
provided
however
                    (b) . Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to issue performance and financial letters of credit (each, a "") in any Major Currency for the account of any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date (i) in an aggregate Available Amount for all Letters of Credit issued by all Issuing Banks not to exceed at any time the Letter of Credit Facility at such time, (ii) in an amount for each Issuing Bank not to exceed the amount of such Issuing Banks' Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (iii) in an amount for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time, in each case, converting all non-Dollar amounts into the Dollar Equivalent thereof; that any Borrower may request that Letters of Credit be issued for the account of any of its Subsidiaries (without designating such Subsidiary as a Designated Subsidiary) so long as such Borrower remains obligated for the reimbursement of any drawings under such Letters of Credit under the terms of this Agreement. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the applicable Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) of later than the Termination Date, that no Letter of Credit may expire after the Termination Date of any Non-Consenting Lender if, after giving effect to such issuance, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Consenting Lenders (including any replacement
Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
provided
provided
Lenders) for the period following such Termination Date would be less than the Available Amount of the Letters of Credit expiring after such Termination Date. Within the limits referred to above, any Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b), repay any Revolving Credit Advances resulting from drawings thereunder pursuant to Section 2.04(c) and request the issuance of additional Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b). Each letter of credit listed on Schedule 2.01(b) shall be deemed to constitute a Letter of Credit issued hereunder, and each Lender that is an issuer of such a Letter of Credit shall, for purposes of Section 2.04, be deemed to be an Issuing Bank for each such letter of credit, that any renewal or replacement of any such letter of credit shall be issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The terms "issue", "issued", "issuance" and all similar terms, when applied to a Letter of Credit, shall include any renewal, extension or amendment thereof.
provided
                    (c) . Each Swing Line Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Swing Line Advances to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount outstanding not to exceed at any time the lesser of (i) such Swing Line Bank's Swing Line Commitment and (ii) the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time. Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of no less than 1,000,000 or $1,000,000, as the case may be. Each Swing Line Borrowing shall consist of Swing Line Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Swing Line Banks ratably according to their respective Swing Line Commitments. Within the limits of the Swing Line Facility and within the limits referred to in clause (ii) above, the Borrowers may borrow under this 2.01(c), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(c).
The Swing Line Advances
                    (d) . The Revolving Credit Facility may be used by way of Swing Line Advances. The Swing Line Facility is not independent of the Revolving Credit Facility.
Relationship of the Swing Line Facility with the Revolving Credit Facility
                    SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Major Currency, (y) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars or (z) 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by any Borrower to the Agent (and the Agent shall, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, immediately relay such notice to the Sub-Agent), which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Revolving Credit Advance. Each Lender shall, before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such
Making the Revolving Credit Advances and Swing Line Advances
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Major Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion (as determined in accordance with Section 2.01) of such Revolving Credit Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower requesting the Revolving Credit Borrowing at the Agent's aforesaid address or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be; , , that the Agent shall first make a portion of such funds equal to the aggregate principal amount of any Swing Line Advances made by the Swing Line Banks in the same currency as the requested Revolving Credit Advance and outstanding on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, plus interest accrued and unpaid thereon to and as of such date, available to the Swing Line Banks and such other Lenders for repayment of such Swing Line Advances.
provided
however
                    (b) Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than 9:30 A.M. (London time) on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing, by the applicable Borrower to the Swing Line Agent which shall give to each Swing Line Bank prompt notice thereof by facsimile. Each such notice of a Swing Line Borrowing (a "") shall be by facsimile, such notice to be in substantially the form of Exhibit B-3 hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Swing Line Borrowing, (ii) Type of Swing Line Advances comprising such Swing Line Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Swing Line Borrowing, and (iv) the Interest Period for each such Swing Line Advance. Each Swing Line Bank shall, before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Swing Line Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Swing Line Agent, in same day funds, such Swing Line Bank's ratable portion of such Swing Line Borrowing. After receipt of such funds by the Swing Line Agent and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Swing Line Agent will make such funds available to the relevant Borrower as specified in the applicable Notice of Swing Line Borrowing.
Notice of Swing Line Borrowing
                    (c) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, a Borrower may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.09 or 2.12.
                    (d) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing and Notice of Swing Line Borrowing of any Borrower shall be irrevocable and binding on such Borrower. In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that the related Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Borrower requesting such Revolving Credit Borrowing shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure by such Borrower to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such
failure, is not made on such date. The Borrower requesting a Swing Line Borrowing shall indemnify each Swing Line Bank against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Swing Line Bank as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Swing Line Borrowing for such Swing Line Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Swing Line Bank to fund the Swing Line Advance to be made by such Swing Line Bank as part of such Swing Line Borrowing when such Swing Line Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
                    (e) (i) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower proposing such Revolving Credit Borrowing on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (x) in the case of such Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (y) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in any Major Currency. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
                    (ii) Unless the Swing Line Agent shall have received notice from a Swing Line Bank prior to 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the day of any Swing Line Borrowing that such Swing Line Bank will not make available to the Swing Line Agent such Swing Line Bank's ratable portion of such Swing Line Borrowing, the Swing Line Agent may assume that such Swing Line Bank has made such portion available to the Swing Line Agent on the date of such Swing Line Borrowing in accordance with subsection (b) of this Section 2.02 and the Swing Line Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower proposing such Swing Line Borrowing on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Swing Line Bank shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Swing Line Agent such Swing Line Bank and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the Swing Line Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Swing Line Agent at (x) in the case of such Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Swing Line Advances comprising such Swing Line Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Swing Line Agent in respect of such amount, and (y) in the case of such Swing Line Bank, the cost of funds incurred by the Swing Line Agent in respect of such amount. If such Swing Line Bank shall repay to the Swing Line Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall
constitute such Swing Line Bank's Swing Line Advance as part of such Swing Line Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
                    (f) (i) The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Revolving Credit Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.
                    (ii) The failure of any Swing Line Bank to make the Swing Line Advance to be made by it as part of any Swing Line Borrowing shall not relieve any other Swing Line Bank of its obligation hereunder to make its Swing Line Advance on the date of such Swing Line Borrowing, but no Swing Line Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Swing Line Bank to make the Swing Line Advance to be made by such other Swing Line Bank on the date of any Swing Line Borrowing.
                    (g) If the respective Unused Commitments of the Lenders on the first day of an Interest Period for any Revolving Credit Borrowing are different from the respective Unused Commitments of the Lenders on the last day of such Interest Period, the Agent shall so notify the Lenders and the respective Revolving Credit Advances shall be reallocated among the Lenders so that, after giving effect to such reallocation, the Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing and continuing into the subsequent Interest Period are funded by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Unused Commitments on such last day. Each Lender agrees that the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.03 shall not apply to any additional amounts required to be funded by such Lender pursuant to this Section 2.02(g).
                    SECTION 2.03. . (a) Each Lender severally agrees that any Borrower may request Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.03 from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the date occurring seven days prior to the Termination Date in the manner set forth below; that, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount (based in respect of any Advance denominated in a Foreign Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars on such Business Day) of the Advances and the aggregate Available Amount of Letters of Credit then outstanding shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Competitive Bid Borrowing may be made in a Foreign Currency if, after giving effect to the making of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate amount of outstanding Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies, together with the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate amount of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Major Currencies, would exceed $500,000,000.
The Competitive Bid Advances
provided
                    (b) Each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency, determined as of the time of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing) or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency, determined as of the time of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing) in excess thereof and, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Borrower that has borrowed such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in compliance with the limitation set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of subsection (a) above.
                    (c) Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.03, any Borrower may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.03, repay or prepay pursuant to subsection (d) below, and reborrow under this Section 2.03, that a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made within three Business Days of the date of any other Competitive Bid Borrowing.
provided
                    (d) Any Borrower that has borrowed through a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall repay to the Agent for the account of each Lender that has made a Competitive Bid Advance, on the maturity date of such Competitive Bid Advance (such maturity date being that specified by such Borrower for repayment of such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and provided in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance), the then unpaid principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance. Such Borrower shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Competitive Bid Advance unless, and then only on the terms, specified by such Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and set forth in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance.
                    (e) Each Borrower that has borrowed through a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance comprising such Competitive Bid Borrowing from the date of such Competitive Bid Advance to the date the principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the rate of interest for such Competitive Bid Advance specified by the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) above, payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by such Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above, as provided in
the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), such Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of unpaid principal of and interest on each Competitive Bid Advance owing to a Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is payable thereon, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Competitive Bid Advance under the terms of the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance unless otherwise agreed in such Competitive Bid Note.
                    (f) The indebtedness of any Borrower resulting from each Competitive Bid Advance made to such Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be evidenced by a separate Competitive Bid Note of such Borrower payable to the order of the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance.
                    SECTION 2.04. . (a) Request for Issuance. (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by any Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent, prompt notice thereof by facsimile. Each such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "Notice of Issuance") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or facsimile, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount and currency (which shall be a Major Currency or Dollars) of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be later than the Termination Date), (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, and shall be accompanied by such customary application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank may specify to the Borrower requesting such issuance for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ""). If (A) the requested form of such Letter of Credit, in the reasonable judgment of the Issuing Bank, conforms to standard practices of financial institutions that regularly issue letters of credit, (B) the issuance of a letter of credit to the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit would not, in the reasonable judgment of the Issuing Bank, violate or conflict with (y) any regulatory or legal restriction applicable to the Issuing Bank, or (z) any internal policy, procedure or guideline of, the Issuing Bank that is consistent with standard practices of financial institutions that regularly issue letters of credit and (C) the Issuing Bank has not received written notice form any Lender, the Agent or any Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in Section 3.03 shall not be satisfied, then such Issuing Bank will, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower requesting such issuance at its office referred to in Section 9.02 or as otherwise agreed with such Borrower in connection with such issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Application shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. An Issuing Bank that issues a Letter of Credit which expires prior to the Termination Date but provides for automatic extension of the expiry date will not exercise its right to prevent the automatic extension of the expiry date unless (i) the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03 are not satisfied as to the date of such Issuing Bank's required notice of non-extension, or (ii) such automatic extension would extend the expiry date beyond the Termination Date.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit Application
                    (b) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to any Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment is amended pursuant to the operation of Sections 2.06(b), (c) or (d), an assignment in accordance with Section 9.06 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
Participations
                    (c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of a Revolving Credit Advance, which, in the case of Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars, shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft or, in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in any Major Currency, shall be an Advance that bears interest at the Overnight Eurocurrency Rate (as defined below) of such Issuing Bank for a period of five Business Days and thereafter, shall be a Base Rate Advance in the Equivalent in Dollars on such fifth Business Day for the amount of such draft. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice (and such Issuing Bank will use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such notice within one Business Day) of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the Company, the applicable Borrower (if not the Company) and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent and the Company, each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Revolving Credit Advance, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, by deposit to the Agent's Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Revolving Credit Advance to be funded by such Lender, that the Lenders shall not be required to fund such Revolving Credit Advances resulting from drawings under a Letter of Credit denominated in any Major Currency until such Advance is exchanged for the Equivalent in Dollars and is a Base Rate Advance. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make Revolving Credit Advances pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
outstanding Revolving Credit Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Revolving Credit Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute a Revolving Credit Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day. "" means the rate per annum applicable to an overnight period beginning on one Business Day and ending on the next Business Day equal to the sum of the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances and the rate per annum quoted by the applicable Issuing Bank to the Agent as the rate at which it is offering overnight deposits in the relevant currency in amounts comparable to such Issuing Bank's Advances resulting from drawings on Letters of Credit denominated in a Major Currency.
provided
Overnight Eurocurrency Rate
                    (d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and (B) to the Agent (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit Reports
                    (e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.04(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
                    SECTION 2.05. . (a) . The Company agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Unused Commitment (Fee Calculation) from the date hereof in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing June 30, 2012, and on the Termination Date, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Company shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
                    (b) . (i) Each Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a fee on such Lender's Ratable Share of the sum of (x) the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued at the request of such Borrower and outstanding from time to time and (y) any Advances bearing interest at the Overnight Eurocurrency Rate as provided in Section 2.04(c) and outstanding from time to time, at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Letter of Credit Rate in effect from time to time, during such calendar quarter, payable in arrears quarterly on the third Business Day after the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the quarter ended June 30, 2012, and on and after the Termination Date payable upon demand; that the Applicable Letter of Credit Rate shall be 1% above the Applicable Letter of Credit Rate in effect upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default if the Borrowers are required to pay default interest pursuant to Section 2.08(b); and , , that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any fee in respect of Letters of Credit for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrowers shall not be required to pay such fee to that Defaulting Lender but shall pay such fee in the manner and to the extent set forth in Section 2.20).
Letter of Credit Fees
provided
provided
further
                    (c) . The Company shall pay to the Agent and Swing Line Agent for its own account such fees, and at such times, as the Company and such Agent may separately agree.
Agent's Fees
                    SECTION 2.06. . (a) . The Company shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the Unused Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, that following any such termination or reduction, the aggregate Swing Line Commitments shall not exceed the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments. The aggregate amount of the Commitments, once reduced as provided in this Section 2.06(a), may not be reinstated.
Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
Optional Ratable Termination or Reduction
provided
provided
                    (b) . The Company shall have the right, upon at least ten Business Days' written notice to the Agent (which shall then give prompt notice thereof to the relevant Lender), to require any Lender (including any Defaulting Lender) to assign, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.06, all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and under the Notes to an Eligible Assignee selected by the Company; , , that (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such request and at the time of such assignment; (ii) the assignee shall have paid to the assigning Lender the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the date of such assignment on, the Note or Notes of such Lender; (iii) the Company shall have paid to the assigning Lender any and all accrued commitment fees and Letter of Credit fees payable to such Lender and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Lender under any provision of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, any increased costs or other additional amounts owing under Section 2.11 and Section 9.04 and any indemnification for Taxes under Section 2.14) as of the effective date of such assignment; (iv) if the assignee selected by the Company is not an existing Lender, such assignee or the Company shall have paid the processing and recordation fee
Non-Ratable Termination by Assignment
provided
however
required under Section 9.06(a) for such assignment and (v) if the assigning Lender is an Issuing Bank, the Company shall pay to the Agent for deposit in the Cash Deposit Account an amount equal to the Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank; that the Company shall have no right to replace more than three Non-Defaulting Lenders in any calendar year pursuant to this Section 2.06(b); and that the assigning Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and, in the case of an Issuing Bank, Sections 2.04(b) and 6.02, and its obligations under Section 8.05, shall survive such assignment as to matters occurring prior to the date of assignment.
provided
further
provided
further
                    (c) . (i) The Company shall have the right, at any time other than during any Rating Condition, upon at least ten Business Days' notice to a Lender (with a copy to the Agent), to terminate in whole such Lender's Commitments. Such termination shall be effective, (x) with respect to such Lender's Unused Commitment, on the date set forth in such notice, , , that such date shall be no earlier than ten Business Days after receipt of such notice and (y) with respect to each Advance outstanding to such Lender, in the case of Base Rate Advances, on the date set forth in such notice and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate, on the last day of the then current Interest Period relating to such Advance; , , that such termination shall not be effective, if, after giving effect to such termination, the Company would, under this Section 2.06(c), reduce the Lenders' Revolving Credit Commitments in any calendar year by an amount in excess of the Revolving Credit Commitments of any three Lenders or $240,000,000, whichever is greater on the date of such termination. Notwithstanding the preceding proviso, the Company may terminate in whole the Commitments of any Lender in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b). Upon termination of a Lender's Commitments under this Section 2.06(c), the Company will pay or cause to be paid all principal of, and interest accrued to the date of such payment on, Advances owing to such Lender and pay any accrued commitment fees or Letter of Credit fees payable to such Lender pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05, and all other amounts payable to such Lender hereunder (including, but not limited to, any increased costs or other amounts owing under Section 2.11 and any indemnification for Taxes under Section 2.14); and upon such payments and, if such Lender is an Issuing Bank, shall pay to the Agent for deposit in the Cash Deposit Account an amount equal to the Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, the obligations of such Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged; , , that such Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and, in the case of an Issuing Bank, Sections 2.04(b) and 6.02, and its obligations under Section 8.05 shall survive such release and discharge as to matters occurring prior to such date. The aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders once reduced pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) may not be reinstated.
Non-Ratable Reduction
provided
however
provided
further
however
provided
however
                    (ii) For purposes of this Section 2.06(c) only, the term "" shall mean a period commencing with notice (a "") by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders to the effect that the Agent has been informed that the rating of the senior public Debt of the Company is unsatisfactory under the standard set forth in the next sentence, and ending with notice by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders to the effect that such condition no longer exists. The Agent shall give a Rating Condition Notice promptly upon receipt from the Company or any Lender of notice stating, in effect, that both of S&P and Moody's (or any successor by merger or consolidation to the business of either thereof), respectively, then rate the senior public Debt of the Company lower than BBB- and Baa3. The Company agrees to give notice to the Agent forthwith upon any change in a rating by either such organization of the
Rating Condition
Rating Condition Notice
senior public Debt of the Company; the Agent shall have no duty whatsoever to verify the accuracy of any such notice from the Company or any Lender or to monitor independently the ratings of the senior public Debt of the Company and no Lender shall have any duty to give any such notice. The Agent shall give notice to the Lenders and the Company as to the termination of a Rating Condition promptly upon receiving a notice from the Company to the Agent (which notice the Agent shall promptly notify to the Lenders) stating that the rating of the senior public Debt of the Company does not meet the standard set forth in the second sentence of this clause (ii), and requesting that the Agent notify the Lenders of the termination of the Rating Condition. The Rating Condition shall terminate upon the giving of such notice by the Agent.
                    (d) . In the event that a Change of Control occurs, each Lender may, by notice to the Company and the Agent given not later than 50 calendar days after such Change of Control, terminate its Revolving Credit Commitment, its Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment and its or its affiliate's Swing Line Commitment, if any, which Commitments shall be terminated effective as of the later of (i) the date that is 60 calendar days after such Change of Control or (ii) the end of the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advance outstanding at the time of such Change of Control or for any Eurocurrency Rate Advance made pursuant to the next sentence of this Section 2.06(d). Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Borrower's right to make a Borrowing or request the issuance of a Letter of Credit under this Agreement shall be suspended for a period of 60 calendar days, except for Base Rate Advances and Eurocurrency Rate Advances having an Interest Period ending not later than 90 calendar days after such Change of Control. A notice of termination pursuant to this Section 2.06(d) shall not have the effect of accelerating any outstanding Advance of such Lender and the Notes of such Lender.
Termination by a Lender
                    (e) Funds deposited to the Cash Deposit Account pursuant to Section 2.06(b)(v) above (in the case of an assigning Lender thereunder that is an Issuing Bank) or Section 2.06(c)(i) above (in the case of a Lender whose Commitments are terminated thereunder that is an Issuing Bank) shall be applied to reimburse any drawings made under any Letter of Credit issued by such applicable Issuing Bank to the extent permitted by applicable law, and if so applied then such reimbursement shall be deemed satisfaction of the obligations of the Lenders and of the applicable Borrower to reimburse such drawing. After all of the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Banks shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder to such Issuing Banks have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in the Cash Deposit Account shall be promptly returned to the Company.
                    SECTION 2.07. . (a) . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances
Revolving Credit Advances
                    (b) . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent, for the account of each Lender that has made a Competitive Bid Advance, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance made to such Borrower and owing to such Lender on the earlier of (i) the maturity date therefor, specified in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(i) and (ii) the Termination Date.
Competitive Bid Advances
                    (c) . The obligation of any Borrower under this Agreement, any Letter of Credit Application and any other agreement or instrument, in each case, to repay any Revolving Credit Advance that results from payment of a drawing under a Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Application and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by a Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights such Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by the Borrower thereof as set forth in Section 9.16 or otherwise):
Letter of Credit Reimbursements
                    (d) . (i) Each Borrower shall repay to the Swing Line Agent for the ratable account of the Swing Line Banks on the last day of the applicable Interest Period, the unpaid principal amount of any Swing Line Advance then outstanding.
Swing Line Advances
                    SECTION 2.09. . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate and each LIBO Rate if the Reuters Page is unavailable. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Company and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.08(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.08(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
                    (b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London interbank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Revolving Credit Advances as part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify each Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) such Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Major Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances, and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in the same currency as such Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify each Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
                    (c) If any Borrower, in requesting a Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, shall fail to select the duration of the Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify such Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will (to the extent such Eurocurrency Rate Advances remain outstanding on such day) automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Major Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances.
                    (d) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will (to the extent such Eurocurrency Rate Advance remains outstanding on such day) automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Major Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended.
                    (e) If the Reuters Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate or LIBO Rate for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances, as the case may be,
                    SECTION 2.10. . (a) . (i) . Each Borrower may, upon notice to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day prior to the date of such proposed prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day of such proposed prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, and, if such notice is given, such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $10,000,000 or the Equivalent thereof in a Major Currency (determined on the date notice of prepayment is given) or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 or the Equivalent thereof in a Major Currency (determined on the date notice of prepayment is given) in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance other than on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c). Each notice of prepayment by a Designated Subsidiary shall be given to the Agent through the Company.
Prepayments of Revolving Credit Advances and Swing Line Advances
Optional Prepayments
Revolving Credit Advances
provided
however
                    (ii) . Each Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Agent by 9:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of the prepayment stating the aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and, if such notice is given such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Swing Line Advances comprising part of the same Swing Line Borrowing in whole or ratably in part; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of no less than 1,000,000 or $1,000,000, as the case may be and (y) in
Swing Line Advances
provided
however
the event of any such prepayment of a Swing Line Advance other than on the maturity date therefor, such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c).
                    (b) . (i) If, on any date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies then outstanding plus (C) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (D) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such date) of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Major Currencies then outstanding exceeds 103% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Company and each other Borrower, if any, shall thereupon promptly prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by such Borrower in an aggregate amount (or deposit an amount in the Cash Deposit Account) sufficient to reduce such sum (calculated on the basis of the Available Amount of Letters of Credit being reduced by the amount in the Cash Deposit Account) to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date, together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a LIBO Rate Advance or a Local Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c). The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b)(i) to the Borrowers and the Lenders.
Mandatory Prepayments
                    (ii) If, on any date, the sum of (A) the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate principal amount of all Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Major Currencies then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate principal amount of all Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies then outstanding plus (C) the Equivalent in Dollars of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Major Currencies then outstanding (in each case, determined on the third Business Day prior to such date), shall exceed 110% of $500,000,000, the Company and each other Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of any such Eurocurrency Rate Advances or any such LIBO Rate Advances owing by such Borrower, on the last day of the Interest Periods relating to such Advances, in an aggregate amount (or deposit an amount in the Cash Deposit Account) sufficient to reduce such sum (calculated on the basis of the Available Amount of Letters of Credit being reduced by the amount in the Cash Deposit Account) to an amount not to exceed $500,000,000, together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid. The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b)(ii) to the Borrowers and the Lenders. Prepayments under this Section 2.10(b)(ii) shall be allocated first to Swing Line Advances, ratably among the Swing Line Banks; and any excess amount shall then be allocated to Revolving Credit Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing selected by the applicable Borrower, ratably among the Lenders.
                    SECTION 2.11. . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not
Increased Costs
having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances or agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower of such Advances shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to such Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
                    (b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder and other commitments of this type or the issuance of or participation in the Letters of Credit (or similar contingent obligations) hereunder, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Company shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Company and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.11(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, regardless of the date adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
                    (c) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.11 shall, upon the written request of the Company delivered to such Lender and the Agent, assign, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.06, all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and under the Notes to an Eligible Assignee selected by the Company; , , that (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such request and at the time of such assignment; (ii) the assignee shall have paid to the assigning Lender the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the date of such assignment on, the Note or Notes of such Lender; (iii) the Company shall have paid to the assigning Lender any and all commitment fees and other fees payable to such Lender and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Lender under any provision of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, any increased costs or other additional amounts owing under this Section 2.11 and Section 9.04(c), and any indemnification for Taxes under Section 2.14) as of the
provided
however
effective date of such assignment and (iv) if the assignee selected by the Company is not an existing Lender, such assignee or the Company shall have paid the processing and recordation fee required under Section 9.06(a) for such assignment; that the assigning Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 8.05, shall survive such assignment as to matters occurring prior to the date of assignment.
provided
further
                    (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Company shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the change or circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the change or circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90 day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
                    SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Major Currency, LIBO Rate Advances in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency or Swing Line Advances in Euros or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or in any Major Currency, LIBO Rate Advances in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency or Swing Line Advances in Euros hereunder, (a) each such Eurocurrency Rate Advance, such LIBO Rate Advance or Swing Line Advance, as the case may be, will automatically, upon such demand, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance or an Advance that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.08(a)(i), as the case may be, and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance, LIBO Rate Advance or Swing Line Advance is denominated in any Foreign Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Converted into a Base Rate Advance or an Advance that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.08(a)(i), as the case may be, and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make such Eurocurrency Rate Advances, such LIBO Rate Advances or such Swing Line Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
Illegality
                    SECTION 2.13. . (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under any Notes, except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Foreign Currency, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds without set-off, counterclaim or deduction of any kind. Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under any Notes with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to Advances denominated in a Foreign Currency not later than 12:00 Noon (at the Payment Office for such Foreign Currency) on the day when due in such Foreign Currency to the Agent in same day funds by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent's Account without set-off, counterclaim or deduction of any kind. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest,
Payments and Computations
commitment fees or Letter of Credit fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.03, 2.04(c), 2.05(b)(ii), 2.06(b), 2.06(c), 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18 or an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.19, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 9.06(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
                    (b) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate and of commitment fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, all computations of interest on Swing Line Advances or based on the Eurocurrency Rate (including the Overnight Eurocurrency Rate) or the Federal Funds Rate and of Letter of Credit fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days and all computations in respect of Competitive Bid Advances shall be made by the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, as specified in the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, commitment fees or Letter of Credit fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
                    (c) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, commitment fee or Letter of Credit fee, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
                    (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from any Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent such Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date
such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies.
                    SECTION 2.14. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.14, any and all payments by or on behalf of any Borrower (including the Company in its capacity as a guarantor under Article VII hereof) hereunder or under the Notes shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , (i) in the case of each Lender and the Agent, (A) net income taxes imposed by the United States or any State thereof and taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and (B) any United States withholding taxes resulting from FATCA and, (ii) in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ""). If any Borrower (including the Company in its capacity as a guarantor under Article VII hereof) shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
                    (b) In addition, each Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
                    (c) Each Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto; , , that a Borrower shall not be obligated to pay any amounts in respect of penalties, interest or expenses pursuant to this paragraph that are payable solely as a result of (i) the failure on the part of the pertinent Lender or the Agent to pay over those amounts received from the Borrowers under this clause (c) or (ii) the gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the pertinent Lender or the Agent. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor. Each Lender agrees to provide reasonably prompt notice to the Agent, the Company and any Borrower of any imposition of Taxes or Other Taxes against such Lender; that failure to give such notice shall not affect such Lender's rights to indemnification hereunder. Each Lender agrees that it will, promptly upon a request by the Company or a Borrower having made an
provided
however
provided
indemnification payment hereunder, furnish to the Company or such Borrower, as the case may be, such evidence as is reasonably available to such Lender as to the payment of the relevant Taxes or Other Taxes, and that it will, if requested by the Company or such Borrower, cooperate with the Company or such Borrower, as the case may be, in its efforts to obtain a refund or similar relief in respect of such payment.
                    (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes by a Borrower under subsection (a) above, each Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 9.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes by or on behalf of any Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of any Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if such Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, such Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
United States person
                    (e) (i) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender, on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender and on the date it changes its Applicable Lending Office in the case of any Lender, and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by any Borrower (unless a change in law renders such Lender unable lawfully to do so), shall provide the Agent and each Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8ECI or W-8BEN, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes. In addition, each Lender further agrees to provide any Borrower with any form or document as any Borrower may reasonably request which is required by any taxing authority outside the United States in order to secure an exemption from, or reduction in the rate of, withholding tax in such jurisdiction, if available to such Lender. If the forms provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement or changes its Applicable Lending Office indicate a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, in the case of a Lender that initially becomes a party to this Agreement pursuant to an assignment in accordance with Section 9.06 or a Lender that undertakes a change in its Applicable Lending Office, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable on the date of such assignment or change with respect to the assignee Lender or Lender after the change in Applicable Lending Office, but only to the extent of United States withholding tax included in Taxes, if any, applicable on the date of such assignment or change with respect to the assignor Lender or Lender prior to such change in Applicable Lending Office. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8ECI or W-8BEN, that a Lender reasonably considers to be
provided
however
confidential, such Lender shall give notice thereof to each Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
                    (ii) In addition, if a payment made to a Lender hereunder or under the Notes would be subject to United States withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Company and the Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Company or the Agent as may be necessary for each Borrower or the Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
                    (f) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide each Borrower with the appropriate form described in Section 2.14(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, each Borrower shall take such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
                    (g) If any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or to the Agent or on behalf of any of them to any taxing authority pursuant to this Section 2.14, such Lender shall, upon the written request of the Company delivered to such Lender and the Agent, assign, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.06, all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and under the Notes to an Eligible Assignee selected by the Company; , , that (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such request and at the time of such assignment; (ii) the assignee shall have paid to the assigning Lender the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the date of such assignment on, the Note or Notes of such Lender; (iii) the Company shall have paid to the assigning Lender any and all commitment fees and other fees payable to such Lender and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Lender under any provision of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, any increased costs or other additional amounts owing under Section 2.11, any break funding costs under Section 9.04(c) and any indemnification for Taxes under this Section 2.14) as of the effective date of such assignment; and (iv) if the assignee selected by the Company is not an existing Lender, such assignee or the Company shall have paid the processing and recordation fee required under Section 9.06(a) for such assignment; that the assigning Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 8.05, shall survive such assignment as to matters occurring prior to the date of assignment.
provided
however
provided
further
                    SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of setoff, if any, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances or Swing Line Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.03, 2.04(c), 2.06(b), 2.06(c), 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) in excess of its Ratable
Sharing of Payments, Etc
Share of payments on account of the Revolving Credit Advances or Swing Line Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Revolving Credit Advances or Swing Line Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Each Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of setoff, if any) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
however
                    SECTION 2.16. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and each Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) for general corporate purposes of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
                    SECTION 2.17. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Revolving Credit Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Revolving Credit Advances. Each Borrower agrees that upon request of any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) that such Lender receive a Revolving Credit Note to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Revolving Credit Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
                    (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.06(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from each Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
                    (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrowers to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding
prima
facie
provided
however
that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement.
                    SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Company may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar year prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments be increased by an amount of $25,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the earliest scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at any time exceed $3,500,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Company for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03 shall be satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
                    (b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Company for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Company and the Agent. Each Lender's proposed increased Revolving Credit Commitment shall be subject to the prior written approval of each Issuing Bank and each Swing Line Bank, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
                    (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Company as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Company may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees approved by each Issuing Bank and each Swing Line Bank (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Revolving Credit Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $25,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
provided
however
                    (d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(c) (each such Eligible Assignee and each Eligible Assignee that agrees to an extension of the Termination Date in accordance with Section 2.19(c), an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Revolving Credit Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the
Assuming Lender
amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
provided
however
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Company, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and funded and unfunded participations in Swing Line Advances and Letters of Credit to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares (calculated based on their Revolving Credit Commitments as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase).
                    SECTION 2.19. . (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to any anniversary of the Restatement Date, the Company, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 20 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Company and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Company in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 20 days prior to the applicable anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Agent shall notify the Company not later than 15 days prior to the applicable anniversary date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Company's request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
                    (b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable anniversary date (the ""), be extended for one year; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.03 shall be satisfied. If fewer
Extension Date
provided
than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.19, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.19 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.19 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, each Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Company, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 8.05, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Company for any requested extension of the Termination Date. The failure of a Lender to respond to a notice of such an increase will be deemed an election by such Lender not to participate therein.
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
                    (c) If fewer than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 10 days prior to the Termination Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders' Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between the Company and the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remain any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Company may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees approved by each Issuing Bank and each Swing Line Bank (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) as Assuming Lenders to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $25,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $25,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
provided
however
provided
further
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 8.05, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Company and the Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Company and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Company and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
provided
further
                    (d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.19) Lenders having Revolving Credit Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Revolving Credit Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Company, and, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions in Section 3.03, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
                    SECTION 2.20. . (a) If any Swing Line Advances or Letters of Credit are outstanding at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, and the Commitments have not been terminated in accordance with Section 6.01, then:
Defaulting Lenders
                    SECTION 3.01. . The amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of the Amendment and Restatement
Restatement Date
                    SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Company will not:
Negative Covenants
                    SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
, and (i) in any such event (except with respect to Competitive Bid Advances as provided in clause (ii) below), the Agent (A) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Company, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.04(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (B) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Company, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers and (ii) in the case of the occurrence of any Event of Default described in clause (i) or (ii) of Section 6.01(a) with respect to any Competitive Bid Advances, the Agent shall, at the request, or may with the consent, of the Lenders which have made or assumed under this Agreement at least 66-2/3% of the aggregate principal amount (based in respect of Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies on the Equivalent in Dollars on the date of such request) of Competitive Bid Advances then outstanding and to whom such Advances are owed, by notice to the Company, declare the full unpaid principal of and accrued interest on all Competitive Bid Advances hereunder and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder with respect to Competitive Bid Advances to be immediately due and payable, whereupon such Advances and such obligations shall be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, (x) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.04(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be
then
provided
however
terminated and (y) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.
                    SECTION 6.02. . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Majority Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Company to, and forthwith upon such demand the Company will, (a) pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding or (b) make such other reasonable arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Majority Lenders; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, the Borrowers shall immediately pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders for deposit in the Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers. If at any time the Agent reasonably determines that any funds held in the Cash Deposit Account are subject to any right or interest of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrowers will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the Cash Deposit Account that are free and clear of any such right and interest. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the Cash Deposit Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law, and if so applied, then such reimbursement shall be deemed a repayment of the corresponding Advance in respect of such Letter of Credit. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in the Cash Deposit Account shall be promptly returned to the Company.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
provided
however
                    SECTION 7.01. . For valuable consideration, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and to induce each Lender to make Advances to the Designated Subsidiaries and to induce the Agent to act hereunder, the Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to each Lender and the Agent that:
Unconditional Guarantee
In addition, the Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that upon default in the payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of any principal of, or interest on, any Advance to any Designated Subsidiary or such other amounts payable by any Designated Subsidiary to any Lender or the Agent, the Company will forthwith pay the same, without further notice or demand.
                    SECTION 7.02. . The Company guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of any Lender or the Agent with respect thereto. The liability of the Company under this guarantee shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
Guarantee Absolute
This guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any of the Lenders or the Agent upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or any Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
                    SECTION 7.03. . The Company hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand for payment, protest, any requirement that any right or power be exhausted or any action be taken against any Designated Subsidiary or against any other guarantor of all or any portion of the Advances, and all other notices and demands whatsoever.
Waivers
                    SECTION 7.04. . Each of the Lenders and the Agent may pursue its respective rights and remedies under this Article VII and shall be entitled to payment hereunder notwithstanding any other guarantee of all or any part of the Advances to the Designated Subsidiaries, and notwithstanding any action taken by any such Lender or the Agent to enforce any of its rights or remedies under such other guarantee, or any payment received thereunder. The Company hereby irrevocably waives any claim or other right that it may now or hereafter acquire
Remedies
against any Designated Subsidiary that arises from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company's obligations under this Article VII, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Agent or the Lenders against any Designated Subsidiary, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Designated Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right. If any amount shall be paid to the Company in violation of the preceding sentence at any time when all the Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agent and shall forthwith be paid to the Agent for its own account and the accounts of the respective Lenders to be credited and applied to the Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, or to be held as collateral for any Obligations or other amounts payable under this Agreement thereafter arising. The Company acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Agreement and that the waiver set forth in this section is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
                    SECTION 7.05. . The Company agrees that, as between (a) the Company and (b) the Lenders and the Agent, the Obligations of any Designated Subsidiary guaranteed by the Company hereunder may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article VI hereof for purposes of this Article VII by declaration to the Company as guarantor notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration as against such Designated Subsidiary and that, in the event of such declaration to the Company as guarantor, such Obligations (whether or not due and payable by such Designated Subsidiary), shall forthwith become due and payable by the Company for purposes of this Article VII.
No Stay
                    SECTION 7.06. . This guarantee is a continuing guarantee and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until payment in full (after the Termination Date) of the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this guaranty, (b) be binding upon the Company, its successors and assigns, (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Lender (including each assignee Lender pursuant to Section 9.06) and the Agent and their respective successors, transferees and assigns and (d) shall be reinstated if at any time any payment to a Lender or the Agent hereunder is required to be restored by such Lender or the Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing clause (c) but subject to Section 9.06, each Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its interest in any Advance to any other person or entity, and such other person or entity shall thereupon become vested with all the rights in respect thereof granted to such Lender herein or otherwise.
Survival
                    SECTION 8.01. . Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and except as set forth in Section
Authorization and Authority
8.07, no Borrower shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any Note (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
                    SECTION 8.02. . The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers or any Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
                    SECTION 8.03. . (a) The Agent's duties hereunder are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
                    (b) The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.01 or Section 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default unless and until the
Company or any Lender shall have given notice to the Agent describing such Default and such event or events.
                    (c) The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
                    (d) Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any "know your customer" or other checks in relation to any Person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
                    SECTION 8.04. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit, and in the case of a Borrowing, such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
                    SECTION 8.05. . (a) Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by a Borrower), from and against such Lender's Ratable Share of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent, in its capacity as such, in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent, in its capacity as such, under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the
Indemnification
provided
foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by a Borrower.
                    (b) Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Issuing Banks (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Company) from and against such Lender's Ratable Share of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against any such Issuing Bank, in its capacity as such, in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Issuing Bank, in its capacity as such, hereunder or in connection herewith; , that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse any such Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any costs and expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) payable by the Company under Section 9.04, to the extent that such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Company.
provided
however
,
                    (c) The Lenders severally agree to indemnify the Swing Line Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers), from and against such Lender's ratable share (determined according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments at such time) of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Swing Line Agent, in its capacity as such, in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Swing Line Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Swing Line Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Swing Line Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) payable by the Borrowers under Section 9.04, to the extent that the Swing Line Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrowers.
provided
                    (d) The failure of any Lender to reimburse any Agent or any Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any amount required to be paid by the Lenders to the Agents as provided herein shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to reimburse any Agent or any Issuing Bank for its Ratable Share of such amount, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to reimburse any Agent or any Issuing Bank for such other Lender's Ratable Share of such amount. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of any Lender hereunder, the agreement and obligations of each Lender contained in this Section 8.05 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes. Each of the Agents and each Issuing Bank agrees to return to the Lenders their respective Ratable Shares of any amounts paid under this Section 8.05 that are
subsequently reimbursed by the Company or any Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 8.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by any Agent, any Lender or a third party.
                    SECTION 8.06. . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.04 (as though such sub-agents were the "Agent" under this Agreement) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
                    SECTION 8.07. . (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Company. The Company may at any time after such notice of resignation, by notice to the Agent, propose a successor Agent (which shall meet the criteria described below) and request that the Lenders be notified thereof by the Agent with a view to their appointment of such successor Agent; the Agent agrees to forward any such notice to the Lenders promptly upon its receipt by the Agent. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (the ""), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks and in consultation with the Company, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation of Agent
Resignation Effective Date
                    (b) If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (v) of the definition thereof, the Majority Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Company and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, in consultation with the Company, appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Majority Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
                    (c) With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (i) the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Majority Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this paragraph. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as
Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
                    (d) Any resignation pursuant to this Section by a Person acting as Agent shall, unless such Person shall notify the Company and the Lenders otherwise, also act to relieve such Person and its Affiliates of any obligation to advance or issue new, or extend existing, Swing Line Advances or Letters of Credit where such advance, issuance or extension is to occur on or after the effective date of such resignation. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank and Swing Line Bank, (ii) the retiring Issuing Bank and Swing Line Bank shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder, (iii) the successor Swing Line Bank shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption and acquire from the retiring Swing Line Bank each outstanding Swing Line Advance of such retiring Swing Line Bank for a purchase price equal to par plus accrued interest and (iv) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
                    SECTION 8.08. . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any Note or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
                    SECTION 8.09. . Each Lender hereby acknowledges that none of the syndication agent or any documentation agent nor any other Lender designated as any "Agent" on the cover or the signature pages hereof (other than the Agent and the Swing Line Agent) has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender, if applicable.
Other Agents
                    SECTION 9.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Notes, nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance
Amendments, Etc
and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each of the Lenders affected thereby, do any of the following: (a) increase the Commitments of such Lender, (b) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (c) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or extend the date of termination of such Lender's Commitment, (d) release the Company from any of its obligations under Article VII, (e) require the duration of an Interest Period to be nine or more months if such period is not available to all Lenders, (f) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder; or (g) amend this Section 9.01; and that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note, (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks in their capacities as such under this Agreement and (z) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Swing Line Bank, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or obligations of the Swing Line Banks under this Agreement.
provided
however
provided
further
                    SECTION 9.02. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc
                    Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
                    (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Borrowers may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
                    Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient.
provided
                    (c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
                    (d) .-
Platform
                    SECTION 9.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
                    SECTION 9.04. . (a) The Company agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (i) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (ii) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto. The Company further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 9.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
                    (b) Each Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Related Parties (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of, or in connection with the preparation for a defense of, any investigation, litigation or proceeding arising out of, related to or in connection with the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Company, its directors, shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, except to the extent any such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense has resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Indemnified Party
The Company also agrees not to assert any claim against any Indemnified Party on any theory of liability for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed
use of the proceeds of the Advances or for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of information or other materials distributed by it in connection with this Agreement through electronic telecommunications or other information transmission systems.
                    (c) (i) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance is made by the applicable Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.03(d), 2.06(b), 2.10(a) or (b) or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, the applicable Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
                    (ii) If any payment of principal of any Swing Line Advance is made by the applicable Borrower to or for the account of a Swing Line Bank other than on the maturity date for such Advance as specified in the applicable Notice of Swing Line Borrowing, as a result of a payment pursuant to Section 2.06(b), 2.10(a) or (b) or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, the applicable Borrower shall, upon demand by a Swing Line Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Agent and the Swing Line Agent), pay to the Swing Line Agent for the account of such Swing Line Bank any amounts required to compensate such Swing Line Bank for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Swing Line Bank to fund or maintain such Advance.
                    (d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes and the termination in whole of any Commitment hereunder.
                    SECTION 9.05. . This Agreement shall become effective on the Restatement Date and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Borrower, the Agent, the Swing Line Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that no Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).
Binding Effect
                    SECTION 9.06. . (a) . No Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.06(b), (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.06(d), or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of Section 9.06(f) (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, participants to the extent provided in Section 9.06(d) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
                    (b) . Any Lender may at any time, with notice to the Company prior to making any proposal to any potential assignee, assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); that (in each case with respect to any Facility) any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.06(c), from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04 and subject to its obligations under Section 8.05 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with Section 9.06(d).
provided
                    (c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts (and stated interest) of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). In addition, the Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation and revocation of designation of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Company, each other Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Company, any other Borrower or any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
                    (d) . Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Company and the other Borrowers hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Company, any other Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation and (vi) within 30 days of the
Participations
provided
however
effective date of such participation, such Lender shall provide notice of such participation to the Company.
                    (e) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 9.06, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Company or any Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of such Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to such Borrower received by it from such Lender.
provided
                    (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or any central bank having jurisdiction over it; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
                    SECTION 9.07. . (a) . The Company may at any time, and from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice in the case of any Subsidiary so designated after the Effective Date, notify the Agent that the Company intends to designate a Subsidiary as a "Designated Subsidiary" for purposes of this Agreement. On or after the date that is 15 Business Days after such notice, upon delivery to the Agent and each Lender of a Designation Letter duly executed by the Company and the respective Subsidiary and substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, such Subsidiary shall thereupon become a "Designated Subsidiary" for purposes of this Agreement and, as such, shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Borrower hereunder. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Company's notice of such pending designation by the Company and the identity of the respective Subsidiary. Following the giving of any notice pursuant to this Section 9.07(a), if the designation of such Designated Subsidiary obligates the Agent or any Lender to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Agent or any Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lender in order for the Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with the results of all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations.
Designated Subsidiaries
Designation
                    If the Company shall designate as a Designated Subsidiary hereunder any Subsidiary not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, any Lender may, with notice to the Agent and the Company, fulfill its Commitment by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act as the Lender in respect of such Designated Subsidiary.
                    As soon as practicable after receiving notice from the Company or the Agent of the Company's intent to designate a Subsidiary as a Designated Borrower, and in any event no later than five Business Days after the delivery of such notice, for a Designated Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, any Lender that may not legally lend to, establish credit for the account of and/or do any
business whatsoever with such Designated Subsidiary directly or through an Affiliate of such Lender as provided in the immediately preceding paragraph (a "Protesting Lender") shall so notify the Company and the Agent in writing. With respect to each Protesting Lender, the Company shall, effective on or before the date that such Designated Subsidiary shall have the right to borrow hereunder, either (A) notify the Agent and such Protesting Lender that the Commitments of such Protesting Lender shall be terminated; that such Protesting Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and/or Letter of Credit reimbursement obligations, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or the relevant Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts), or (B) cancel its request to designate such Subsidiary as a "Designated Subsidiary" hereunder.
provided
                    (b) . Upon the payment and performance in full of all of the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations under this Agreement and the Notes of any Designated Subsidiary then, so long as at the time no Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing or Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing in respect of such Designated Subsidiary is outstanding, such Subsidiary's status as a "Designated Subsidiary" shall terminate upon notice to such effect from the Agent to the Lenders (which notice the Agent shall give promptly upon its receipt of a request therefor from the Company). Thereafter, the Lenders shall be under no further obligation to make any Advance hereunder to such Designated Subsidiary.
Termination
                    SECTION 9.08. . Each of the Lenders and the Agent hereby agrees that it shall not disclose any financial reports and other information from time to time supplied to it by the Company hereunder to the extent that such information is not and does not become publicly available and which the Company indicates at the time is to be treated confidentially, , , that nothing herein shall affect the disclosure of any such information (i) by the Agent to any Lender, (ii) to the extent required by law (including statute, rule, regulation or judicial process), (iii) to counsel for any Lender or the Agent or to their respective independent public accountants, (iv) to bank examiners and auditors and appropriate government examining authorities or self-regulatory bodies having or claiming oversight any Lender or its affiliates, (v) to the Agent or any other Lender, (vi) in connection with any litigation to which any Lender or the Agent is a party relating hereto or in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder, (vii) to actual or prospective assignees and participants as contemplated by Section 9.06(e), (viii) to any Affiliate of the Agent or any Lender or to such Affiliate's officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors, that, prior to any such disclosure, such Affiliate or such Affiliate's officers, directors, employees, agents or advisors, as the case may be, shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Company received by it or (ix) to any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap, derivative, financial insurance or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrowers and their obligations hereunder, this Agreement or payments hereunder; a determination by a Lender or the Agent as to the application of the circumstances described in the foregoing clauses (i)-(viii) being conclusive if made in good faith; and each of the Lenders and the Agent agrees that it will follow procedures which are intended to put any transferee of such confidential information on notice that such information is confidential.
Confidentiality
provided
however
provided
                    SECTION 9.09. . Each Lender hereby agrees that, commencing as promptly as practicable after it becomes aware of the occurrence of any event giving rise to the operation of Section 2.11(a), 2.12 or 2.14 with respect to such Lender, such Lender will give notice thereof through the Agent to the respective Borrower. A Borrower may at any time, by notice through the Agent to any Lender, request that such Lender change its Applicable Lending Office as to any Advance or Type of Advance or that it specify a new Applicable Lending Office with respect to its Commitment and any Advance held by it or that it rebook any such Advance with a view to avoiding or mitigating the consequences of an occurrence such as described in the preceding sentence, and such Lender will use reasonable efforts to comply with such request unless, in the opinion of such Lender, such change or specification or rebooking is inadvisable or might have an adverse effect, economic or otherwise, upon it, including its reputation. In addition, each Lender agrees that, except for changes or specifications or rebookings required by law or effected pursuant to the preceding sentence, if the result of any change or change of specification of Applicable Lending Office or rebooking would, but for this sentence, be to impose additional costs or requirements upon the respective Borrower pursuant to Section 2.11(a), Section 2.12 or Section 2.14 (which would not be imposed absent such change or change of specification or rebooking) by reason of legal or regulatory requirements in effect at the time thereof and of which such Lender is aware at such time, then such costs or requirements shall not be imposed upon such Borrower but shall be borne by such Lender. All expenses incurred by any Lender in changing an Applicable Lending Office or specifying another Applicable Lending Office of such Lender or rebooking any Advance in response to a request from a Borrower shall be paid by such Borrower. Nothing in this Section 9.09 (including, without limitation, any failure by a Lender to give any notice contemplated in the first sentence hereof) shall limit, reduce or postpone any obligations of the respective Borrower under Section 2.11(a), Section 2.12 or Section 2.14, including any obligations payable in respect of any period prior to the date of any change or specification of a new Applicable Lending Office or any rebooking of any Advance.
Mitigation of Yield Protection
                    SECTION 9.10. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    SECTION 9.11. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
                    SECTION 9.12. . (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against the Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank, or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by
Jurisdiction, Etc
applicable law, in such federal court. Each Designated Subsidiary hereby agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in the any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon the Company at its address specified in Section 9.02, and each Designated Subsidiary hereby irrevocably appoints the Company its authorized agent to accept such service of process, and agrees that the failure of the Company to give any notice of any such service shall not impair or affect the validity of such service or of any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon. Each Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to such Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 9.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by law or to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction. To the extent that each Designated Subsidiary has or hereafter may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property, each Designated Subsidiary hereby irrevocably waives such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Agreement.
                    (b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
                    SECTION 9.13. . If a change in any Foreign Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate and LIBO Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Company) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrowers in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Foreign Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
                    SECTION 9.14. . This written agreement represents the full and final agreement between the parties with respect to the matters addressed herein and supersedes all prior communications, written or oral, with respect thereto. There are no unwritten agreements between the parties.
Final Agreement
                    SECTION 9.15. . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or under the Notes in any currency (the "") into another currency (the ""), the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase the Original Currency with the Other Currency at 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the first Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
Original Currency
Other Currency
                    (b) The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any sum due in the Original Currency from it to any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note or Revolving Credit Notes held by such Lender shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any Other Currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) of any sum adjudged to be so due in such Other Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase Dollars with such Other Currency; if the amount of Dollars so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the Original Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the Original Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to such Borrower such excess.
                    SECTION 9.16. . None of the Agent, the Lenders nor any Issuing Bank, nor any of their Affiliates, or the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person or such Affiliate, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder, or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the applicable Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the applicable Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by such Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or any failure to honor a Letter of Credit where such Issuing Bank is, under applicable law, required to honor it. The parties hereto expressly agree that, as long as the Issuing Bank has not acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct, such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, an Issuing Bank may, in its reasonable discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
provided
                    SECTION 9.17. . Each Lender hereby notifies the Company that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each borrower, guarantor or grantor (the "Loan Parties"), which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Loan Party in accordance with the Act.
Patriot Act Notice
                    SECTION 9.18. .
License Agreement and CDS Data
                    (a) The Agent hereby notifies the Company and the Lenders that it has entered into a licensing agreement (the "") with Markit, pursuant to which Markit will provide to the Agent for each Business Day a composite end of day credit default swap spread for the five (5) year credit default swap spread of the Company (the "") that the Agent will use to determine the Credit Default Swap Spread. The Agent hereby further notifies the Company and the Lenders that, pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, (i) the CDS Data will be provided by Markit on an "as is" basis, without express or implied warranty as to accuracy, completeness, title, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, (ii) Markit has no liability to the Agent for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the CDS Data, except in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, (iii) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, constitutes confidential information (and each Lender agrees to treat such information in confidence to the same extent and in the same manner as such Bank is required to hold confidential information pursuant to Section 9.08 hereof), (iv) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, may be used by the Agent, the Company and the Lenders solely for the purposes of this Agreement and (v) Markit and the Agent, except in each case in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, shall have no liability whatsoever to either the Company or any Lender or any client of a Lender, whether in contract, in tort, under a warranty, under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Company, such Lender or client as a result of or in connection with any opinions, recommendations, forecasts, judgments or any other conclusions, or any course of action determined, by such Lender or any client of such Lender based on the CDS Data. Each of the Company and the Lenders (other than Citibank, N.A., in its capacity as the Agent, which is a party thereto) agrees that it shall not be a third party beneficiary of the Licensing Agreement and shall have no rights or obligations thereunder.
Licensing Agreement
CDS Data
                    (b) The CDS Data shall be made available to the Company pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Company and the Agent, including procedures that permit uninterrupted, online access. The Company agrees that it will use reasonable efforts (e.g., procedures substantially comparable to those applied by the Company in respect of non-public information as to the business of the Company) to keep confidential the CDS Data and the related materials provided by Markit pursuant to the Licensing Agreement to the extent that the same is not and does not become publicly available.
                    (c) It is understood and agreed that in the event of a breach of confidentiality, damages may not be an adequate remedy and that the Licensing Agreement provides that Markit shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain any such breach, threatened or actual.
                    (d) The Company acknowledges that each of the Agent and the Lenders from time to time may conduct business with and may be a shareholder of Markit and that each of the Agent and the Lenders may have from time to time the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of directors of Markit.
                    (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent hereby represents and warrants to the Company that the Agent has the express authority under the Licensing Agreement to provide the CDS Data and the related materials provided from time to time by Markit to the Company.
                    SECTION 9.19. . Each Borrower acknowledges that the Agent, each Lender and their respective Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the
No Fiduciary Duty
""), each is acting pursuant to a contractual relationship on an arm's length basis, and the parties hereto do not intend that any Lender Party act or be responsible as a fiduciary to any Borrower, its management, stockholders, creditors or any other person. Each Borrower and each Lender Party hereby expressly disclaims any fiduciary relationship and agrees they are each responsible for making their own independent judgments with respect to any transactions entered into between them. Each Borrower also hereby acknowledges that no Lender Party has advised nor is advising such Borrower as to any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax matters, and that such Borrower is consulting its own advisors concerning such matters to the extent it deems appropriate.
Lender Parties
                    SECTION 9.20. . Each party hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in any legal proceeding directly or indirectly arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby (whether based on contract, tort or any other theory). Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other Person has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other Person would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this section.
Waiver of Jury Trial
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
Dated: _______________, 201_                    
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [NAME OF BORROWER], a _________________________ corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012, among Honeywell International Inc., the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on such date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
                    The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
                    Both principal and interest in respect of each Revolving Credit Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to Citibank, N.A., as Agent, at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Major Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds. Each Revolving Credit Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
                    This Promissory Note is one of the Revolving Credit Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Revolving Credit Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Dollar amount first above mentioned or the Equivalent thereof in one or more Major Currencies, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Revolving Credit Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Major Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
                    The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
                    This promissory note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Dated: _______________, 201_                    
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [NAME OF BORROWER], a _________________________ corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office (as defined in the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012, among Honeywell International Inc., the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined)), on _______________, the principal amount of [U.S.$_______________] [for a Competitive Bid Advance in a Foreign Currency, list currency and amount of such Advance].
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
                    The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof from the date hereof until such principal amount is paid in full, at the interest rate and payable on the interest payment date or dates provided below:
                    Interest Rate: [____% per annum (calculated on the basis of a year of _____ days for the actual number of days elapsed)].
                    Interest Payment Date or Dates: ______________
                    Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of ________________ to Citibank, N.A., as Agent, for the account of the Lender at the office of __________________, at __________________ in same day funds.
                    This Promissory Note is one of the Competitive Bid Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events.
                    The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
                    This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Attention: Bank Loan Syndication
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    The undersigned, [Name of Borrower], refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2012 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing
                    The undersigned hereby certifies that the conditions precedent to this Revolving Credit Borrowing set forth in Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied and the applicable statements contained therein are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing.
Attention: Bank Loan Syndication
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    The undersigned, [Name of Borrower], refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2012 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Honeywell International Inc., certain Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth the terms on which such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "") is requested to be made:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing
                    The undersigned hereby certifies that the conditions precedent to this Competitive Bid Borrowing set forth in Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied and the applicable statements contained therein are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing.
                    The undersigned hereby confirms that the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing is to be made available to it in accordance with Section 2.03(a)(v) of the Credit Agreement.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    The undersigned, [Name of Borrower], refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2012 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Swing Line Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Swing Line Borrowing
                    The undersigned hereby certifies that the conditions precedent to this Swing Line Borrowing set forth in Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied and the applicable statements contained therein are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Swing Line Borrowing.
                    This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each] Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each] Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees] hereunder are several and not joint.]Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
1
Assignor
2
Assignee
3
4
Credit Agreement
                    For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities), and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being
referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
ANNEX 1
                    1. .
Representations and Warranties
                    1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of any Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, or (iv) the performance or observance by any Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assignor[s]
                    1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.06(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.06(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(h) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform
Assignee[s]
in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
                    2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent shall make all payments of interest, fees or other amounts paid or payable in kind from and after the Effective Date to [the][the relevant] Assignee.
Payments
                    3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    Reference is made to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012, among Honeywell International Inc. (the ""), the Lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders (the ""). For convenience of reference, terms used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Company
Credit Agreement
                    Please be advised that the Company hereby designates its undersigned Subsidiary, ____________ (""), as a "Designated Subsidiary" under and for all purposes of the Credit Agreement.
Designated Subsidiary
                    The Designated Subsidiary, in consideration of each Lender's agreement to extend credit to it under and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, does hereby assume each of the obligations imposed upon a "Designated Subsidiary" and a "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, the Designated Subsidiary hereby represents and warrants to each Lenders as follows:
__________, 2012
To each of the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement (as defined below), and to Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Sections 3.01(e)(iv) and 3.02(f) of the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012, among Honeywell International Inc. (the ""), the Lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are, unless otherwise defined herein, used herein as therein defined.
Company
Credit Agreement
                    I have acted as counsel for the Company in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement. I have also acted as special counsel for_________, _________, _________and _________ (each, a "") in connection with the Credit Agreement.
Designated Subsidiary
                    In that connection I have examined:
                    I have also examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such corporate records of the Company and the Designated Subsidiaries (including resolutions adopted by the respective Board of Directors of each of the Company and the Designated Subsidiaries), certificates of public officials and of officers of the Company and the Designated Subsidiaries, and agreements, instruments and documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the Company and the Designated Subsidiaries or their respective officers or of public officials.
                    In rendering the opinions set forth below, I have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the genuineness of all signatures and the conformity to authentic originals of all documents submitted to me as copies. I have also assumed the legal capacity for all purposes relevant hereto of all natural persons and, with respect to all parties to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company, that such parties had the requisite power and authority (corporate or otherwise) to execute, deliver and perform such agreements or instruments, that such agreements or instruments have been duly authorized by all requisite action (corporate or otherwise), executed and delivered by such parties and that such agreements or instruments are the valid, binding, and enforceable obligations of such parties.
                    I am qualified to practice law in the State of New York, and I do not purport to be expert in, or to express any opinion herein concerning, any laws other than the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Federal laws of the United States.
                    Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion:
                    In connection with the opinions expressed by me above in paragraph 4, I wish to point out that (i) provisions of the Credit Agreement that permit the Agent or any Lender to take action or make determinations may be subject to a requirement that such action be taken or such determinations be made on a reasonable basis and in good faith, (ii) that a party to whom an advance is owed may, under certain circumstances, be called upon to prove the outstanding amount of the Advances evidenced thereby, (iii) the rights of the Agent and the Lenders provided for in Section 9.04(b) of the Credit Agreement may be limited in certain circumstances and (iv) I express no opinion with respect to the enforceability of any indemnity against loss in converting into a specified currency the proceeds or amount of a court judgment in another currency.
                    I do not express any opinion on any matter not expressly addressed above. The opinions set forth herein are delivered based solely upon the examinations, assumptions and other matters described herein as of the date hereof, and I undertake no obligation to modify or supplement this opinion letter or otherwise to communicate with you with respect to changes in law or matters which occur or come to my attention after the date hereof.
                    This opinion letter is given for the sole and exclusive benefit of the addressees hereof and may not be relied upon by or delivered or disclosed to any other person, except that any person that becomes a Lender in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement after the date hereof may rely on these opinions as if this opinion letter were addressed and delivered to such Lender on the date hereof. In addition, this opinion letter relates only to the matters, the opinions and the transaction specifically referred to or provided herein, and no other opinions should be implied therefrom.
____________, 20__
To each of the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement (as defined below), and to Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    In my capacity as counsel to __________ (""), I have reviewed that certain Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012, among Honeywell International Inc., the Lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for such Lenders (the ""). In connection therewith, I have also examined the following documents:
Designated Subsidiary
Credit Agreement
                    (i) The Designation Letter (as defined in the Credit Agreement) executed by the Designated Subsidiary.
                    [such other documents as counsel may wish to refer to]
                    I have also reviewed such matters of law and examined the original, certified, conformed or photographic copies of such other documents, records, agreements and certificates as I have considered relevant hereto. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the Company or its officers or of public officials.
                    Except as expressly specified herein all terms used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement.
                    I am qualified to practice law in __________, and I do not purport to be expert in, or to express any opinion herein concerning, any laws other than the laws of __________.
                    Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the opinion that:
                    In connection with the opinions expressed by me above in paragraph 3, I wish to point out that (i) provisions of the Credit Agreement which permit the Agent or any Lender to take action or make determinations may be subject to a requirement that such action be taken or such determinations be made on a reasonable basis and in good faith, (ii) a party to whom an advance is owed may, under certain circumstances, be called upon to prove the outstanding amount of the Advances evidenced thereby, (iii) the rights of the Agent and the Lenders provided for in Section 9.04(b) of the Credit Agreement may be limited in certain circumstances and (iv) I express no opinion with respect to the enforceability of any indemnity against loss in converting into a specified currency the proceeds or amount of a court judgment in another currency.
                    I do not express any opinion on any matter not expressly addressed above. The opinions set forth herein are delivered based solely upon the examinations, assumptions and other matters described herein as of the date hereof, and I undertake no obligation to modify or supplement this opinion letter or otherwise to communicate with you with respect to changes in law or matters which occur or come to my attention after the date hereof.
                    This opinion letter is given for the sole and exclusive benefit of the addressees hereof and may not be relied upon by or delivered or disclosed to any other person, except that any person that becomes a Lender in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement after the date hereof may rely on these opinions as if this opinion letter were addressed and delivered to such Lender on the date hereof. In addition, this opinion letter relates only to the matters, the opinions and the transaction specifically referred to or provided herein, and no other opinions should be implied therefrom.
To the Initial Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below and to Citibank, N.A., as Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    We have acted as counsel to Citibank, N.A., as Agent (the ""), in connection with the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2012 (the ""), among Honeywell International Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and each of you. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Agent
Credit Agreement
Borrower
                    In that connection, we have reviewed originals or copies of the following documents:
                    (a) The Credit Agreement.
                    (b) The Notes executed by the Borrower and delivered on the date hereof.
The documents described in the foregoing clauses (a) and (b) are collectively referred to herein as the "."
Opinion Documents
                    We have also reviewed originals or copies of such other agreements and documents as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinion expressed below.
                    In our review of the Opinion Documents and other documents, we have assumed:
                    We have not independently established the validity of the foregoing assumptions.
                    "" means the federal law of the United States of America, and the law of the State of New York (including the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder or pursuant thereto), that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional
Generally Applicable Law
diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Borrower, the Opinion Documents or the transactions governed by the Opinion Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition of Generally Applicable Law, the term "Generally Applicable Law" does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Borrower, the Opinion Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any party to any of the Opinion Documents or any of its affiliates due to the specific assets or business of such party or such affiliate.
                    Based upon the foregoing and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that each Opinion Document is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
                    Our opinion expressed above is subject to the following qualifications:
                    A copy of this opinion letter may be delivered by any of you to any person that becomes a Lender in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. Any such person may rely on the opinion expressed above as if this opinion letter were addressed and delivered to such person on the date hereof.
                    This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Opinion Documents. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you or any
person entitled to rely on this opinion pursuant to the preceding paragraph for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
                    This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinion expressed herein.


