FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20020802131607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
                     Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 2, 2002
M&T BANK CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
New York
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(716) 842-5445
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     In accordance with the Order issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on June 27, 2002 ("Order Requiring the Filing of Sworn Statements Pursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934," File No. 4-460), Robert G. Wilmers, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of M&T Bank Corporation, and Michael P. Pinto, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of M&T Bank Corporation, filed their sworn written statements required by such Order with the Commission on August 2, 2002. Conformed copies of such sworn written statements are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Robert G. Wilmers, the principal executive officer of M&T Bank Corporation, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of M&T Bank Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the M&T Bank Corporation Audit Committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - M&T Bank Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of M&T Bank Corporation filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. By: /s/ ROBERT G. WILMERS Subscribed and sworn to --------------------------------- before me this 31st day of Robert G. Wilmers July 2002. Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of M&T Bank Corporation /S/ Marie King ----------------------------- Notary Public July 31, 2002 My Commission Expires: Marie King Notary Public, State of New York Qualified in Erie County My Commission Expires 03/30/03

Exhibit 99.2 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Michael P. Pinto, the principal financial officer of M&T Bank Corporation, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of M&T Bank Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the M&T Bank Corporation Audit Committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following , if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - M&T Bank Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of M&T Bank Corporation filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. By: /s/ Michael P. Pinto Subscribed and sworn to -------------------------- before me this 31st day of Michael P. Pinto July 2002. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of M&T Bank Corporation /s/ Marie King --------------------------- Notary Public July 31, 2002 My Commission Expires: Marie King Notary Public, State of New York Qualified in Erie County My Commission Expires 03/30/03



