FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20051122152022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 15, 2005, the Board of Directors of M&T Bank approved amendments to the M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan and the M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan (collectively, the "Supplemental Retirement Plans"). The Supplemental Retirement Plans are nonqualified deferred compensation plans that generally provide certain benefits to eligible employees whose benefits under the M&T Bank Corporation Pension Plan and the M&T Bank Corporation Retirement Savings Plan (collectively, the "Qualified Retirement Plans") are limited by certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The amendments to the Supplemental Retirement Plans reflect (i) the benefit formula and contribution formula changes to the Qualified Retirement Plans that were previously approved by the Board of Directors of M&T Bank and will become effective January 1, 2006, and (ii) the new requirements imposed on the Supplemental Retirement Plans by Section 409A of the Code . In addition to amending the Supplemental Retirement Plans to be consistent in how benefits and contributions are calculated under the Qualified Retirement Plans, including by using total pay instead of base salary as the basis for these calculations, the Supplemental Retirement Plans were amended to increase the cap on pay recognized under the plans from $235,840 to $350,000 and to make it explicit that only Senior Vice Presidents and above are eligible to participate in the plans. The amendments required by Section 409A of the Code, which are effective as of January 1, 2005, revised the procedures to defer compensation and to select the timing and form of the payment of benefits under the Supplemental Retirement Plans. The description of the amended Supplemental Retirement Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to the plans themselves, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
M&T Bank Corporation announced on November 21, 2005 that its Board of Directors had authorized M&T Bank Corporation to repurchase up to 5 million additional shares of its common stock. This new authorization will supplement the previous buyback program that was authorized in December 2004. The public announcement of the foregoing matter was made by means of a news release, the text of which is set forth in Exhibit 99 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. 10.1 - M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended and restated. Exhibit No. 10.2 - M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, as amended and restated. Exhibit No. 99 - News Release dated November 21, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of this M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan (the "Supplemental Pension Plan") is to provide for the payment of supplemental retirement benefits to select management and highly compensated employees of M&T Bank Corporation and certain of its affiliates whose accrued benefits under the M&T Bank Corporation Pension Plan (the "Pension Plan") are subject to certain limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"). The Employers intend and desire that this Supplemental Pension Plan, together with the other elements of the Employers' compensation programs, will attract, retain and motivate eligible employees.
For the purposes of this Supplemental Pension Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. All other terms used herein with initial capital letters that are not defined below shall have the meanings assigned to them under the provisions of the Pension Plan unless otherwise specified herein or as otherwise qualified by the context in which the term is used herein.

Exhibit 10.2
The purpose of this M&T Bank Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan (the Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan") is to provide for the payment of supplemental retirement benefits to select management and highly compensated employees of M&T Bank Corporation and certain of its affiliates, contributions on whose behalf under the M&T Bank Corporation Retirement Savings Plan (the "RSP") are subject to certain limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"). The Employers intend and desire that this Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, together with the other elements of the Employers' compensation programs, will attract, retain and motivate eligible employees.
For the purposes of this Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. All other terms used herein with initial capital letters that are not defined below shall have the meanings assigned to them under the provisions of the RSP unless otherwise specified herein or as otherwise qualified by the context in which the term is used herein.
Notwithstanding any other terms of the Plan, for Plan Year 2005 only:
1. Section 2.5 shall read as follows:
2. Section 3.2 shall read as follows:
(b) The credit to a Participant's Account under this Section 4.1 shall be computed with the objective that the Participant should have credited to his accounts under this Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan and the RSP the total amount that would otherwise have been contributed on his behalf under Section 5.02 of the RSP as of the date of such credit, had such contribution been calculated in accordance with (a)(i) above.
Amounts credited pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.3 hereof shall be credited to a Participant's Account hereunder at substantially the same time as corresponding amounts are credited under the RSP for the Plan Year, except that such amounts shall not be credited to a Participant's Account hereunder during the Plan Year until the Participant has made the minimum required contribution under Section 3.2 hereof.

Exhibit 99
BUFFALO, NEW YORK  M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") (NYSE:MTB) announced that it has been authorized by its Board of Directors to purchase and hold as treasury stock up to 5 million additional shares of its common stock. This represents approximately 4.4% of common shares currently outstanding. Under this authorization, shares of common stock may be purchased from time-to-time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The new authorization will supplement the previous buyback program authorized in December 2004.
M&T is a bank holding company whose banking subsidiaries, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National Association, operate branch offices in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and the District of Columbia.


