FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20050107165406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") announced today that Steven M. Coen, Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of M&T and M&T Bank, the principal banking subsidiary of M&T, will retire later in 2005 and, effective as of January 3, 2005, resigned from his position as Chief Information Officer of M&T and M&T Bank and as a member of M&T Bank's Management Group. Mr. Coen, who is 56, will assist in the transition of his duties to his successor until his retirement becomes effective. (c) M&T also announced today that, effective January 3, 2005, Michele D. Trolli was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of M&T and M&T Bank and as a member of M&T Bank's Management Group. Ms. Trolli, who is 43, previously served as Senior Director, Global Systems Support of Franklin Resources Inc. since May 2000, where she was responsible for all global infrastructure systems and technology operations for Franklin Templeton Investments. Ms. Trolli was also employed by KeyCorp from M ay 1990 to January 2000, having served most recently as Executive Vice President/Development Director, where she was responsible for its technology development organization. The public announcement regarding Mr. Coen's retirement and Ms. Trolli's appointment was made by means of a news release, the text of which is set forth in Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. 99 - News Release dated January 7, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

BUFFALO, NYSteven M. Coen, executive vice president and chief information officer of M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") (NYSE:MTB) and its principal banking subsidiary, M&T Bank, has announced that he will retire in early 2005.
Coen joined M&T Bank in 1993 as a senior vice president for its central technology systems department. In that position, he was responsible for the bank's technology architecture and corporate systems. In 1998, Coen was named development manager and assumed responsibility for all system development and support. As chief information officer, a position he held since January 24, 2001, Coen has made significant contributions to the technology and banking operations division of the bank, as well as led and contributed to many successful bank-wide initiatives.
Michele D. Trolli joined M&T and M&T Bank as an executive vice president and chief information officer, effective January 3, 2005. She also replaced Coen as a member of M&T Bank's Management Group.
Trolli has relocated from California where she most recently held the position of senior director, global systems support with Franklin Resources Inc., a worldwide investment management company since May 2000. During her tenure Trolli was responsible for all global infrastructure systems and technology operations for Franklin Templeton Investments. Trolli was previously employed by KeyCorp from May 1990 to January 2000, where she served most recently as executive vice president/development director and was responsible for its technology development organization.
M&T is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New York, whose banking subsidiaries, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National Association, operate branch offices in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and the District of Columbia
.


