FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20050622084559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") announced today that it appointed Robert E. Sadler, Jr., Executive Vice President, as President and Chief Executive Officer of M&T and Chief Executive Officer of M&T Bank, M&Ts principal banking subsidiary. Mr. Sadler succeeds Robert G. Wilmers in these positions although Mr. Wilmers will remain Chairman of M&T and becomes Chairman of M&T Bank. Mr. Sadler, age 60, has been Chairman of M&T Bank since 2003, and was President from 1996 to 2003. The Boards of Directors of M&T and M&T Bank approved these appointments yesterday during a joint meeting. These appointments became effective immediately. The public announcement regarding these appointments was made by means of a news release, the text of which is set forth in Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit 99 - News Release dated June 22, 2005. Filed herewith.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99
BUFFALO, NY - M&T Bank Corporation (NYSE:MTB)("M&T") announced today that Robert E. Sadler, Jr. has been appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of M&T and Chief Executive Officer of M&T Bank, M&T's principal banking subsidiary. Robert G. Wilmers remains Chairman of M&T, and becomes Chairman of M&T Bank.
These evolutionary changes, approved yesterday by M&T's Board of Directors, become effective immediately. Mr. Wilmers, age 71, has served as M&T's Chairman, President and CEO since 1983. Mr. Sadler, age 60, has been Chairman of M&T Bank since 2003, and was President from 1996 to 2003.
"When Bob Sadler and I first started working together, M&T was a $2 billion bank in Buffalo. Today, after working side-by-side for almost 22 years, M&T is one of the twenty largest banks in the country, with more than $50 billion in assets, more than 650 branches in six states and the District of Columbia and more than 13,000 employees," Mr. Wilmers said.
"The successes we have achieved together are based upon our shared commitment to creating shareholder value, to community banking, to conservative and consistent lending standards and to a disciplined acquisition strategy. I am confident that the principles, values and vision that have guided us through the last 22 years together will continue to guide Bob Sadler and the rest of our colleagues at M&T well into the future," continued Mr. Wilmers.
"I am honored to succeed Bob Wilmers as M&T's President and CEO. Bob is one of the most successful and most respected CEOs in the industry  in any industry for that matter. We will continue to work closely in our new roles," said Mr. Sadler.
"In all of the most important ways, M&T will continue to be the same in the future as it is today  a fine investment for our shareholders; a great place to work for our employees; one of the best providers of financial products, services and advice to our customers; and one of the strongest supporters of the communities we serve  in keeping with the vision that Bob Wilmers and I have shared for the past 22 years," Mr. Sadler concluded.
M&T is headquartered in Buffalo, NY.


