FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20050923143947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) On September 20, 2005, Gary Kennedy resigned as a director of M&T and its principal banking subsidiary, M&T Bank, effective as of the conclusion of the joint meeting of the Boards of Directors of M&T and M&T Bank that was held that day. (d) Pursuant to its right under that certain Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of September 26, 2002 by and among M&T, Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. ("AIB") and Allfirst Financial Inc. to designate four individuals to the Boards of Directors of M&T and M&T Bank for as long as its owns at least 15% of M&T's outstanding common stock, AIB nominated Colm E. Doherty to succeed Mr. Kennedy. At the joint meeting of the Boards of Directors of M&T and M&T Bank held on September 20, 2005, and based upon the recommendation of the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of M&T, Mr. Doherty, 46, was unanimously elected as a director of M&T and M&T Bank. The public announcement regarding Mr. Doherty's election and Mr. Kennedy 's resignation was made by means of a news release, the text of which is set forth in Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit 99 - News Release dated September 21, 2005. Filed herewith.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

BUFFALO, NY  Colm E. Doherty was elected to the Boards of Directors of M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T")(NYSE:MTB) and M&T Bank, M&T's primary banking subsidiary. Mr. Doherty, 46, is Managing Director of AIB Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. ("AIB"). AIB Capital Markets comprises AIB Group's Global Treasury, Investment Banking and Corporate Banking businesses.
Mr. Doherty is also a member of AIB's Board, AIB Group's Executive Management Committee, AIB Group Credit Committee and AIB Group Market Risk Committee. Prior to joining AIB in 1988, Mr. Doherty worked in investment banking in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Mr. Doherty is a member of the Prime Minister's Advisory Committee on the International Financial Services Centre.
Mr. Doherty was elected to fill vacancies created by the resignation of Gary Kennedy from the Boards of M&T and M&T Bank.
M&T is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New York whose banking subsidiaries, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National Association, operate branch offices in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and the District of Columbia.


