FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20090527202816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date: May 27, 2009      *Filed herewith.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 3.03.   
Material
Modification to Rights of Security Holders
     
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of December 18, 2008, by and among Provident Bankshares Corporation ("Provident"), M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T"), and First Empire State Holding Company, a Maryland corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of M&T ("Merger Sub"), Provident merged with and into Merger Sub (the "Merger"), with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T. The Merger became effective at 12:01 a.m., Eastern Standard Time, on May 23, 2009.
     
As a result of the Merger, except for Exception Shares as defined in the Merger Agreement, (i) each outstanding share of Provident common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Provident Common Stock"), was converted into the right to receive 0.171625 shares of M&T's common stock, par value $0.50 (the "M&T Common Stock"), (ii) each outstanding share of Provident Series A Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (the "Provident Series A Preferred Stock") was converted into the right to receive one share of M&T's Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (the "M&T Series B Preferred Stock"), and (iii) each outstanding share of Provident Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the "Provident Series B Preferred Stock") was converted into the right to receive one share of M&T 46;s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (the "M&T Series C Preferred Stock").
     
Upon issuance of the M&T Series B Preferred Stock and the M&T Series C Preferred Stock (collectively, the "New M&T Preferred Stock") more fully described in the designations relating to each series of New M&T Preferred Stock contained in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation referenced in Item 5.03 below, the ability of M&T to pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment on M&T Common Stock and other of M&T's capital stock ranking junior to the New M&T Preferred Stock and on other preferred stock and other stock ranking on a parity with the New M&T Preferred Stock, will be subject to certain restrictions in the event that M&T does not declare dividends on the New M&T Preferred Stock during any dividend period.
     
This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Section 5 (with respect to the M&T Series B Preferred Stock) and Section 6 (with respect to the M&T Series C Preferred Stock) of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed as Exhibit 3.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.02.    
Election
of Directors
     
Effective May 23, 2009, Gary N. Geisel, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Provident and Provident's Chief Executive Officer, joined M&T's Board of Directors. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, M&T had agreed to cause one current member of Provident's Board of Directors, designated by Provident and reasonably acceptable to M&T, to be appointed to M&T's Board of Directors immediately after the completion of the merger. Provident had designated, and M&T had accepted, Gary N. Geisel as the designee.
Item 5.03.    
Amendments
to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws
     
In connection with the Merger, M&T filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the New York State Department of State on May 22, 2009. M&T's Restated Certificate of Incorporation became effective immediately upon filing.
     
M&T's Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and amends M&T's certificate of incorporation by:
     
This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed as Exhibit 3.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01.   
Other
Events
     
On May 26, 2009, M&T issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.   
Financial
Statements and Exhibits
(d)        Exhibits.
            The following exhibits are filed herewith:
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, M&T has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
         The undersigned, being the President and an Assistant Secretary of M&T Bank Corporation (the ""), do hereby restate, amend, certify and set forth:
Corporation
(1)      The name of the corporation is M&T BANK CORPORATION. The name under which the corporation was formed is First Empire State Corporation.
         
(2)      The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation was filed by the Department of State on the 6th day of November, 1969. A first restated certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 19th day of December, 1969; a second restated certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 28th day of April, 1986; a third restated certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 20th day of April, 1989; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 14th day of March, 1991; a fourth restated certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 8th day of May, 1997; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 29th day of May, 1998; a fifth restated certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 3rd day of June, 1998; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 5th day of October, 2000; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 25th day of March, 2003; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the Department of State on the 1st day of April, 2003; an amendment to the certificate of incorporation was filed by the department of State on the 19th day of December, 2008.
         
(3)      The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as amended heretofore is hereby restated and amended in accordance with Section 807 of the Business Corporation Law by:
         
          (A)     
adding language in a new section 5 to Article FOURTH, which recites the terms and conditions of the series of 26,500 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "" created by the board of directors of the Corporation (the "") or an applicable committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and Section 803(a) of the Business Corporation Law, via resolutions adopted on April 21, 2009 and
Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock
Board of Directors
(B)     
          
adding language in a new section 6 to Article FOURTH, which recites the terms and conditions of a series of 151,500 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "" created by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C
Corporation and Section 803(a) of the Business Corporation Law, via resolutions adopted on April 21, 2009 and
          (C)     
amending the post office address in Article FIFTH to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of service of process against the Corporation to Attention: General Counsel, One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203-2399, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and Section 803(a) of the Business Corporation Law, via resolutions adopted on April 21, 2009,
         
such that the text of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as amended heretofore is hereby restated and amended to read as herein set forth in full:
FIRST: The name of the corporation is M&T BANK CORPORATION.
SECOND: The purpose or purposes for which it is formed are
To engage in the business of a bank holding company.
          (1)     
To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to own and hold and exercise all the powers and privileges of ownership and to sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of and deal in and with shares, bonds, and other securities, interests or obligations issued by any person, corporation, firm, or other entity, domestic or foreign.
          (2)     
To the extent permitted by law to cause to be organized, merged or consolidated, any corporation, firm or other entity, domestic or foreign.
          (3)     
To the extent permitted by law to render services, assistance, and advice to, and to act as representative or agent in any capacity of, any person, corporation, firm, or other entity, domestic or foreign.
          (4)     
To arrange for, finance, pay or cause to be paid the compensation of the directors, officers or employees of any corporation, firm, or other entity in the business again of which the Corporation shall have any interest and to adopt, alter or amend any plan or plans for additional compensation to such directors, officers or employees.
          (5)     
To purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire, and to own, improve, mortgage or otherwise encumber, real and personal property, or any interest therein wherever situated.
          (6)     
         
The foregoing purposes shall be construed in furtherance and not in limitation of powers now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of New York.
THIRD:  The office of the Corporation is to be located in the City of Buffalo, County of Erie, and State of New York.
FOURTH: 1.  The aggregate number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is two hundred fifty-one million (251,000,000) shares, divided into two classes, namely, preferred shares and common shares. The number of preferred shares authorized is one million (1,000,000) shares of the par value of one dollar ($1.00) per share. The number of common shares authorized is two hundred fifty million (250,000,000) shares of the par value of fifty cents ($0.50) per share.
                     2.       
Authority is hereby granted to the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time to issue the preferred shares in one or more series and for such consideration, not less than the par value thereof, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and, before the issuance of any shares of a particular series to fix the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price or prices, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series. In lieu of issuing a new series, the Board of Directors may increase the number of shares of a series already outstanding. Before the issue of any shares of a series established by the Board of Directors, the Board shall cause to be delivered to the Department of State the necessary certificate of amendment under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York as now in effect or hereafter amended.
                     3.       
The description of the common shares and of their relative rights and limitations are as follows:
Out of the assets of the Corporation which are by law available for the payment of dividends remaining after all dividends to which any preferred shares then outstanding shall be entitled shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment for all past dividend periods, dividends may be declared and paid upon the common shares to the exclusion of the holders of preferred shares.
           (a)        
In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of record of any preferred shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid the amount which the Board of Directors prior to issuance of such preferred shares fixed to be paid for each such share upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up as set forth in the necessary certificate of amendment, as required by Article FOURTH, Paragraph 2 above plus accumulated dividends on such shares up to the date of such liquidation, di ssolution or winding up of the Corporation and no more. After payment to the holders of any preferred shares then outstanding of the amount payable to them as aforesaid, the remaining assets of the Corporation shall be payable to and distributed ratably among the holders of record of the common shares.
           (b)       
           (c)        
The holders of the common shares shall vote share for share, together with the holders of any series of the preferred shares entitled to have voting rights except as may be provided by the Board of Directors with respect to any other series of the preferred shares.
                    4.        
A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
         
Part 1.
Designation
.  There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "" (the "
and Number of Shares
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
Designated Preferred
Stock
"). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 600,000.
         
Part 2.
Definitions
.  The following terms, including those set forth in the Standard Provisions, are used in this Certificate of Designations as defined below:
"" means the common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Corporation.
           (a)        
Common Stock
"" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
           (b)        
Dividend Payment Date
"" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
           (c)        
Junior Stock
"" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
           (d)        
Liquidation Amount
"" means $150,000,000.
           (e)        
Minimum Amount
"" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do n ot expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
           (f)        
Parity Stock
"" means the Original Issue Date.
           (g)        
Signing Date
         
Part 3.
Certain
. Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
Voting Matters
STANDARD
PROVISIONS
     
Section 1.  
General
.  Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
Matters
     Section 2.  
Standard
.  As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Definitions
           (a)      "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
           (b)      "
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
           (c)      "
Business Combination
" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
           (d)      "
Business Day
" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
           (e)      "
Bylaws
" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
           (f)      "
Certificate of Designations
" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
           (g)      "
Charter
" has the meaning set forth in section 3(a).
           (h)      "
Dividend Period
" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
           (i)      "
Dividend Record Date
" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
           (j)      "
Liquidation Preference
" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
           (k)      "
Original Issue Date
           (l)      "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
           (m)      "
" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
           (n)      "
" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
           (o)      "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
           (p)      "
" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
           (q)      "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
           (r)      "
" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
     
Section 3.  
Dividends
.
           (a)      
Rate
.  Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original I ssue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (
i.e.
, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "", pro vided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
           
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
           
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "
Dividend Record
Date
"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
           
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
           (b)      
Priority
.  So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applica ble as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,
of Dividends
provided
that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or
custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "
Share Dilution
Amount
" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
           
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared
pro rata
so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized c ommittee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
 
           
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
     Section 4.  
Liquidation
.
Rights
           (a)      
Voluntary
. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus)
or Involuntary Liquidation
available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "
Liquidation
Preference
").
           (b)      
Partial
. If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Payment
           (c)      
Residual
. If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Distributions
           (d)      
Merger,
. For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
     
Section 5.  
Redemption
.
           (a)      
Optional
. Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Redemption
           
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;
provided
that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "" as defined in the rele vant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
Minimum Amount
Successor Preferred Stock
           
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
           (b)      
No
. The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
Sinking Fund
           (c)      
Notice
. Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock de signated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares
of Redemption
to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
           (d)      
Partial
. In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either
Redemption
pro rata
or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock sh all be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
           (e)      
Effectiveness
. If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the
of Redemption
pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
           (f)      
Status
. Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (
of Redeemed Shares
provided
that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
     
Section 6.  
Conversion
. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
     
Section 7.  
Voting
.
Rights
           (a)      
General
. The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
           (b)      
Preferred
. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of
Stock Directors
Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
provided
that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Pre ferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
           (c)      
Class
. So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
             (i)      
Authorization
. Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
of Senior Stock
             (ii)      
Amendment
. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a
of Designated Preferred Stock
merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
             (iii)     
Share
. Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference se curities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
provided
,
however
, that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such div idends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
           (d)      
Changes
. No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
after Provision for Redemption
           (e)      
Procedures
. The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any nation al securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
for Voting and Consents
     Section 8.  
Record
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Holders
     
Section 9.  
Notices
. All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferre d Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
     Section 10. 
No
. No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Preemptive Rights
     Section 11. 
Replacement
. The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Certificates
     Section 12. 
Other
. The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Rights
            5.        
A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
Section 5.1    
            
Designation
.  There is hereby created a series of Preferred Stock to be designated as the Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (the ""). The number of shares constituting the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 26,500. The number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may not be increased, but may be decreased, but not below the num ber of shares then outstanding. Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have the same relative powers, preferences and rights as, and shall be identical in all respects with the other shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
and Amount
Convertible Preferred Stock
Section 5.2    
            
Certain
.  As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings defined in this Section 5.2. Any capitalized term not otherwise defined herein shall
Definitions
have the meaning set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, unless the context otherwise requires:
            
"" shall have the meaning given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor rule thereunder.
Affiliate
            
"" means the board of directors of the Corporation or, with respect to any action to be taken by such board of directors, any committee of the board of directors duly authorized to take such action.
Board of Directors
            
"" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(5) hereof.
            
Buy-In
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
            
Certificate of Incorporation
"" means May 23, 2009.
            
Closing Date
            
"" as used herein means the Corporation's common stock, par value $0.50 per share, as the same exists at the Closing Date, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such common stock consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value.
Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(1) hereof.
            
Conversion Date
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(2) hereof.
""
            
Conversion Notice
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(2) hereof.
""
            
Conversion Rate
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1 hereof.
            
Convertible Preferred Stock
            
"" means the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Corporate Trust Office
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
            
Corporation
            
"" of the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) on any Trading Day means the reported last sale price per share (or, if no last sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices per share or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices per share) on such date as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, then as reported by the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock (or such other property) is listed or if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national securities exchange, or, if no closing price for the Common Stock (or such property) is so reported, the last quoted bid price
Daily Closing Price
for the Common Stock (or such property) in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock (or such property) on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Corporation. For the purposes of this Section 5.2, all references herein to the closing sale price and the last sale price reported of the Common Stock (or other property) on the New York Stock Exchange shall be the closing sale price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service;
provided
that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing p rice and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale price and the last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(1) hereof.
            
Dividend Payment Date
            
"" means the period ending on the day before a Dividend Payment Date and beginning on the preceding Dividend Payment Date or, if there is no preceding Dividend Payment Date, on the Issue Date.
Dividend Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(1) hereof.
            
Early Conversion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(5) hereof.
            
Early Conversion Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
            
Electing Share
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
            
Exchange Property
            
"" means the Person in whose name the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation and the Transfer Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
Holder
"" shall mean April 14, 2008.
            
Issue Date
            
"" means the Corporation's Common Stock and each other class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to or on a parity with the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon the Corporation's liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Junior Stock
"" means, as to the Convertible Preferred Stock, $1,000 per share.
            
Liquidation Preference
"" means April 1, 2011.
            
Mandatory Conversion Date
            
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) of any suspension or limitation
Market Disruption Event
imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock (or such other property) or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock (or such other property), and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
            
"" means the New York Stock Exchange run by NYSE Euronext, Inc.
New York Stock Exchange
            
"" means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, or the Secretary of the Corporation.
Officer
            
"" means a certificate of the Corporation, signed by any duly authorized Officer of the Corporation.
Officer's Cer
tificate
            
"" means the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C and any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series shall rank on a parity with the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Parity Stock
            
"" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
            
Reorganization Event
            
"" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the primary U.S. national securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded.
Scheduled Trading Day
            
"" means any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series shall rank senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Senior Stock
            
"" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii)the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, any day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock (or such other property) is listed is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not listed on a national securities exchange, any business day. A "
Trading Day
Trading
Day
" only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
            
"" shall mean Registrar and Transfer Company, the Corporation's duly appointed transfer agent, registrar, redemption, conversion and dividend disbursing agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent with 10 days' prior notice to the Transfer Agent;
Transfer Agent
provided
that the Corporation shall appoi nt a successor Transfer Agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(1)(i) hereof.
            
Voting Rights Class
Section 5.3    
            
Ranking
.  The Convertible Preferred Stock will, with respect to both dividend rights and rights upon the liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, rank (i) senior to all Junior Stock, (ii) on parity with Parity Stock and (iii) junior to all Senior Stock.
Section 5.4    
            
Dividends
.
            
(1)        Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum equal to 10.0% on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Convertible Preferred Stock, and no more, payable in arrears on each May 1, August 1, November 1 and February 1. If any date specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date. With respect to the first Dividend Payment Date, the amount referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph shall include an accrual, as of the Closing Date, in the amount of $6.11 per share. The term "
Dividend Payment
Date
" means May 1, August 1, November 1 and February 1, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day;
provided
,
however
, that the fi rst Dividend Payment Date shall be August 1, 2009. The term "Dividend Period" means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the Closing Date for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;
provided
,
however
, that the final Dividend Period shall be from February 1, 2011 to but excluding the Mandatory Conversion Date. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
            
(2)       
Dividends on shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corp oration shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Convertible Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Convertible Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of
interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.
            
(3)       
In the event that in any fiscal quarter the board of directors declares a cash dividend or distribution on its Common Stock in an amount in excess of $0.9614 per share (as adjusted for any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, consolidation or similar transactions), the board of directors shall, in addition to and not in lieu of any dividend declared pursuant to Section 5.4(1) hereof, declare a dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock for the then current Dividend Period at a rate per annum equal to (i) the percentage amount by which the Common Stock dividend exceeds $0.9614 multiplied by (ii) 10.0% (rounded to the nearest one-hundredth).
Section 5.5    
            
Payment
. So long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock as described in Section 5.4 have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, an d other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all, or a pro rata portion, of the Convertible Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Convertible Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in ar rears. If the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Restrictions
Section 5.6    
            
Voting
.
Rights
            
(1)       
The Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise required by New York law from time to time:
                (i)      So long as any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding, unless a greater percentage shall then be required by law, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and all other shares of any Parity Stock having similar voting rights that are exercisable (the ""), voting as a single class, in person or by proxy, at an annual meeting of the Corporation's shareholders or at a special meeting called for such purpose, or by written consent in lieu of such meeting, alter, repeal or amend, whether by merger, consolidation, combination, reclassification or otherwise, any provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incor poration or the provisions hereof if the amendment would amend, alter or affect the powers, preferences or rights of the Convertible Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the Holders thereof, including, without limitation, the creation of, increase in the authorized number of, or issuance of, shares of any class or series of Senior Stock.
Voting Rights Class
(ii)      In exercising the voting rights set forth in this Section 5.6(1), each share of Convertible Preferred Stock and any other shares of the Voting Rights Class participating in the vote described above shall be in proportion to the liquidation preference of each such share.
               
            
(2)       
The Corporation may authorize, increase the authorized amount of, or issue any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, without the consent of the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock, and in taking such actions the Corporation shall not be deemed to have affected adversely the rights, preferences, privileges or voting rights of Holders of shares of Converti ble Preferred Stock.
Section 5.7    
            
Liquidation,
.
Dissolution or Winding-Up
            
(1)       
In the event of any liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, each Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders, the Liquidation Preference plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation, and before any payment or distribution is made on, any Junior Stock, including, without limitation, Common Stock.
            
(2)       
Neither the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all the assets or business of the Corporation (other than in connection with the liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of its business) nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other Person shall be deeme d to be a liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 5.7.
            
(3)       
After the payment to the Holders of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock of full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 5.7, the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
            
(4)       
If upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Liquidation Preference of the Convertible Preferred Stock and all Parity Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Stock will share equally and ratably in any distribution of the Corpora tion's assets in proportion to the full liquidation preference and accumulated and unpaid dividends to which such holders are entitled.
Section 5.8    
            
Mandatory
.
Conversion on the Mandatory Conversion Date
            
(1)       
Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall automatically convert (unless previously converted at the option of the Holder in accordance with Section 5.9 hereof) on the Mandatory Conversion Date into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate.
            
(2)       
The "" shall be equal to 16.345222 shares of Common Stock per share of Convertible Preferred Stock. The Conversion Rate is subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 hereof.
Conversion Rate
            
(3)       
The Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock on the Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the Mandatory Conversion Date.
Section 5.9    
            
Early
.
Conversion at the Option of the Holder
            
(1)       
Shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible, in whole or in part, at the option of the Holder thereof ("") at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 5.13 hereof.
Early Conversion
            
(2)       
Any written notice of conversion ("") pursuant to this Section 5.9 shall be duly executed by the Holder, and specify:
Conversion Notice
the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted;
                (i)      
the name(s) in which such Holder desires the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion to be registered and whether such shares of Common Stock are to be issued in book-entry or certificated form (subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements if any of such certificates are to be issued in a name other than the name of the Holder);
                (ii)     
if certificates are to be issued, the address to which such Holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion; and
                (iii)    
                (iv)     
any other transfer forms, tax forms or other relevant documentation required and specified by the Transfer Agent, if necessary, to effect the conversion.
            
(3)       
If specified by the Holder in the Conversion Notice that shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be issued to a person other than the Holder surrendering the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock being converted, then the Holder shall pay or cause to be paid any transfer or similar taxes payable in connection with the s hares of Common Stock so issued.
            
(4)       
Upon receipt by the Transfer Agent of a completed and duly executed Conversion Notice, compliance with Section 5.9(3), if applicable, and surrender of a certificate representing share(s) of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), the Corporation shall, within three Business Days or as soon as possible thereafter, issue and shall ins truct the Transfer Agent to register the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion in the name(s) specified by such Holder in the notice of conversion. If a Holder elects to hold its shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock in certificated form, the Corporation shall promptly send or cause to be sent, by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holder thereof, at the address designated by such Holder in the Conversion Notice, a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such Holder or such Holder's designee in the manner provided in the immediately preceding se ntence a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock that shall not have been converted.
            
(5)       
The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock in respect of the Liquidation Preference of such shares in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed effective immediately prior to the close of business on the day (the "") of receipt by the Transfer Agent o f the Conversion Notice and other documents, if any, set forth in Section 5.9(2) hereof, in compliance with Section 5.9(3), if applicable, and the surrender by such Holder or such Holder's designee of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto).
Early Conversion Date
Section 5.10    
            
Conversion
.
Procedures
            
(1)       
On the Mandatory Conversion Date or any Early Conversion Date (collectively, a ""), any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock converted to Common Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are co nvertible.
Conversion Date
            
(2)       
The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon any such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of
Common Stock as of the close of business on the applicable Conversion Date. No allowance or adjustment, except as set forth in Section 5.13, shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
            
(3)       
Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock duly converted in accordance herewith, or otherwise reacquired by the Corporation, shall resume the status of authorized and unissued Preferred Stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
            
(4)       
In the event that a Holder of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Convertible Preferred Stock should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder of such Convertible Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records of the Corporation.
            
(5)       
In addition to any other rights available to the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock, if the Corporation fails to cause its Transfer Agent to transmit to a Holder a certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Holder's Convertible Preferred Stock, or to otherwise electronically transfer the shares to an ac count of the Holder, on or before the third business day after the Corporation's receipt of an executed copy of the Conversion Notice (so long as the applicable certificate or certificates for the Convertible Preferred Stock and the original Conversion Notice are received by the Corporation on or before such third business day) or the Mandatory Conversion Date, and if after such date the Holder is required by its broker to purchase (in an open market transaction or otherwise) shares of Common Stock to deliver in satisfaction of a sale by the Holder of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock which the Holder anticipated receiving upon such conversion (a ""), then the Corporation shall (1) pay in cash to the Holder the amount by which (x) the Holder's total purchase price (including brokerage commissions, if any) for the shares of Common Stock so purchased exceeds (y) the amount obtained by multiplying (A) the number of shares of Commo n Stock issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock that the Corporation was required to deliver to the Holder in connection with the conversion at issue times (B) the price at which the sell order giving rise to such purchase obligation was executed, and (2) at the option of the Holder, either reinstate the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and equivalent number of shares of Common Stock for which such conversion was not honored or deliver to the Holder the number of shares of Common Stock that would have been issued had the Corporation timely complied with its conversion and delivery obligations hereunder. For example, if a Holder purchases Common Stock having a total purchase price of $11,000 to cover a Buy-In with respect to an attempted conversion of shares of Common Stock with an aggregate sale price giving rise to such purchase
Buy-In
obligation of $10,000, under clause (1) of the immediately preceding sentence the Corporation shall be required to pay to the Holder $1,000. The Holder shall provide the Corporation written notice indicating the amounts payable to the Holder in respect of the Buy-In, together with applicable confirmations and other evidence reasonably requested by the Corporation. Nothing herein shall limit a Holder's right to pursue any other remedies available to it hereunder, at law or in equity including, without limitation, a decree of specific performance and/or injunctive relief with respect to the Corporation's failure to timely deliver certificates representing shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock as required pursuant to the terms hereof.
Section 5.11    
            
Reservation
.
of Common Stock
            
(1)       
The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the treasury of the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time t o time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 5.11(1), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.
            
(2)       
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock reacquired and held in the treasury of the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such treasury shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
            
(3)       
All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
            
(4)       
Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereo f by, any governmental authority.
            
(5)       
The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation shall, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock;
provided
,
however
, that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such
Common Stock until the first conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.
Section 5.12    
            
Fractional
.
Shares
            
(1)       
No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or as a result of any payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock in shares of Common Stock.
            
(2)       
In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 5.8 hereof or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 5.9, the Corporation shall at its option either (i) issue to such Holder a whole share of Common Stock or (ii) pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the fraction of the average Daily Closing Price of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the second Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date or Early Conversion Date, as applicable.
            
(3)       
If more than one share of the Convertible Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock so surrendered.
Section 5.13    
            
Anti
.
-Dilution Adjustments to the Conversion Rate
            
(1)       
Stock Dividends and Distributions and Subdivisions, Splits and Combinations of the Common Stock. If the Corporation issues Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock to all holders of the Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination of the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following fo rmula:
           
Any adjustment made pursuant to this subclause (i) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after (x) the date fixed for the determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this subclause (i) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
            
(2)       
Reserved
.
(3)       
            
Calculation
.
of Adjustments
No adjustment in the Conversion Rate will be required unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. If the adjustment is not made because the adjustment does not change the Conversion Rate by at least 1%, then the adjustment that is not made will be carried forward and taken into account in any future adjustment. All required calculations will be made to the nearest cent or 1/10,000th of a share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all adjustments not previously made shall have effect with respect to any conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 5.8 or 5.9.
                (i)      
No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made if Holders may participate in the transaction that would otherwise give rise to such adjustment, so long as the distributed assets or securities the Holders would receive upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stockif such assets or securities are convertible, exchangeable, or exercisableare convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as applicable, without any loss of rights or privileges for a period of at least 45 days following conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock. The applicable Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted:
                (ii)     
upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in the Common Stock under any plan;
            (A)      
upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan, employee agreement or arrangement or program of the Corporation;
            (B)      
upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the Issue Date;
            (C)      
for a change in the par value of the Common Stock; or
            (D)      
as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 17.1625 shares of the Common Stock.
            (E)      
                (iii)    
The Corporation shall have the power to resolve any ambiguity and its action in so doing, as evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors, or a duly authorized committee thereof, shall be final and conclusive unless clearly inconsistent with the intent hereof.
            
(4)       
Notice
. Whenever the Conversion Rate is to be adjusted, the Corporation shall: (i) compute the adjusted Conversion Rate and prepare and transmit to the Transfer Agent an Officer's Certificate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; (ii) as soon as practicable following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to the Conversion Rate (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware), provide, or cause to be provided, a written notice to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock of the occurrence of such event; and (iii) as soon as practicable following the determination of the revised Conversion Rate provide, or ca use to be provided, to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the method by which the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the revised Conversion Rate.
of Adjustment
(5)       
            
Reorganization
. In the event of:
Events
                (A)    
any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is the continuing corporation and in which the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger or consolidation are not exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Corporation or another Person),
                (B)    
any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, or
                (C)    
any reclassification of the Common Stock into securities including securities other than the Common Stock (any such event specified in paragraphs (A) through (C), a ""), each share of Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be convertible into the kind of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the Conversion Date) pe r share of Common Stock (the "") by a holder of Common Stock that exercised his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event and in respect of which such rights of election shall have been exercised (""), then, for the purpose of this Section 5.13(5) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by each Electing Share shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the kinds and amounts so receivable per share by the Electing Shares). The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 5.8
Reorganization Event
Exchange Property
Electing Share
or 5.9 hereof shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date.
The above provisions of this Section 5.13(5) shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 5.13 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
            ; 
The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitute the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 5.13(5).
            
(6)       
            
For purposes of this Section 5.13, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
Section 5.14    
            
Replacement
.
Stock Certificates
(1)       
            
If any of the Convertible Preferred Stock certificates shall be mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Corporation shall, at the expense of the Holder, issue, in exchange and in substitution for and upon cancellation of the mutilated Convertible Preferred Stock certificate, or in lieu of and substitution for the Convertible Preferred Stock certificate lost, stolen or destroyed, a new Convertible Preferred Stock certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent amount of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, but only upon receipt of evidence of such loss, theft or destruction of such Convertible Preferred Stock certificate and indemnity, if requested, satisfactory to the Corporation and the Transfer Agent.
(2)       
            
The Corporation is not required to issue any certificates representing the Convertible Preferred Stock on or after the Mandatory Conversion Date. In lieu of the delivery of a replacement certificate following the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Transfer Agent, upon delivery of the evidence and indemnity described above, shall deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock formerly evidenced by the certificate.
Section 5.15    
            
Transfer
Agent, Registrar, Redemption, Conversion and Dividend
Disbursing
. The duly appointed Transfer Agent, Registrar, Redemption, Conversion and Dividend Disbursing Agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be Registrar and Transfer Company. The Corporation ma y, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Corporation and the Transfer Agent;
Agent
provided
that the Corporation shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal. Upon any such removal or appointment, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Section 5.16    
            
Miscellaneous
.
(1)       
            
All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Section 5.16) with postage prepaid, addressed: (i) if to the Corporation, to its office at 1 M & T Plaza, Buffalo, NY 14203, Attention: Chief Financial Officer or to the Transfer Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted by this Section 5.16, or (ii) if to any Holder of the Convertible Preferred Stock or holder of shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be), or (iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
(2)       
            
The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person other than a payment to the Holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
(3)       
            
The Liquidation Preference and the annual dividend rate set forth herein each shall be subject to equitable adjustment whenever there shall occur a stock split, combination, reclassification or other similar event involving the Convertible Preferred Stock. Such adjustments shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and submitted by the Board of Direct ors to the Transfer Agent.
The Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
(4)       
            
(5)       
            
Any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, and may be reissued as part of a new series of Pre ferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Amendment creating a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
(6)       
            
A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
         
Part 1.
Designation
. There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "" (the "
and Number of Shares
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C
Designated Preferred
Stock
"). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 151,500.
         
Part 2.
Standard
. The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.
Provisions
         
Part 3.
Definitions
. The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:
"" means May 23, 2009.
(1)       
            
Closing Date
(2)       
            
"" means the common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(3)       
            
"" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
(4)       
            
"" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(5)       
            
"" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
"" means $37,875,000.
(6)       
        ;     
Minimum Amount
(7)       
            
"" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Parity Stock
"" means November 14, 2008.
(8)       
        ;     
Signing Date
         
Part 4.
Certain
. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity
Voting Matters
Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent. For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock under Section 7 of the Standard Provisions forming part of this Certificate of Designations, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which such holder's shares are entitled.
ANNEX A
     
Section 1.    
General
. Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
Matters
     Section 2.    
Standard
. As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Definitions
            (a)        "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue, Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
            (b)        "
" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
            (c)        "
" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
            (d)        "
" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
            (e)        "
" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
            (f)        "
" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
            (g)        "
" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
            (h)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Period
            (i)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
            (j)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
            (k)       "" means November 14, 2008.
Original Issue Date
            (l)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
            (m)       "
" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
            (n)        "
" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
            (o)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
            (p)        "
" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
            (q)        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
            (r)         "
" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
     Section 3.    
Dividends
.
            (a)        
Rate
. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Clo sing Date and shall include an accrual, as of the Closing Date, in the amount of $1.11 per share, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (i.e., no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur after the Closing Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "," provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Closing Da te to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
           
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
           
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "
Dividend Record
Date
"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day i s a Business Day.
           
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
            (b)        
Priority
. So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, provided that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-maki ng, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or
of Dividends
custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "
Share Dilution
Amount
" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Closing Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
           
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
           
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
     Section 4.    
Liquidation
.
Rights
            (a)        
Voluntary
. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus)
or Involuntary Liquidation
available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "
Liquidation
Preference
").
            (b)        
Partial
. If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Payment
            (c)        
Residual
. If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Distributions
            (d)        
Merger,
. For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
     Section 5.    
Redemption
.
            (a)        
Optional
. Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equ al to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Redemption
           
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;
provided
that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "" as defined in the relev ant Certificate of Designations for the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, of the Corporation and each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (together, the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
Minimum Amount
Successor Preferred Stock
           
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
            (b)        
No
. The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
Sinking Fund
            (c)        
Notice
. Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Prefe rred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares
of Redemption
to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
            (d)        
Partial
. In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Redemption
            (e)        
Effectiveness
. If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
of Redemption
            (f)        
Status
. Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (provided that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
of Redeemed Shares
     Section 6.    
Conversion
. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
     Section 7.    
Voting
.
Rights
            (a)        
General
. The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
            (b)        
Preferred
. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of
Stock Directors
Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
provided
that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Pre ferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
            (c)        
Class
. So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
                (i)        
Authorization
. Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
of Senior Stock
                (ii)        
Amendment
. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a
of Designated Preferred Stock
merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
                (iii)       
Share
. Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining out standing or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
provided
,
however
, that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such div idends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
            (d)        
Changes
. No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
after Provision for Redemption
            (e)        
Procedures
. The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
for Voting and Consents
     Section 8.    
Record
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Holders
     Section 9.    
Notices
. All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
     Section 10.   
No
. No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Preemptive Rights
     Section 11.   
Replacement
. The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Certificates
     Section 12.  
Other
. The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Rights
          
FIFTH:  The Secretary of State is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process against the Corporation may be served. The post office address to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of any process against the Corporation served upon him is Attention: General Counsel, One M&T Plaza, 12th Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203-2399.
          
SIXTH:  No holder of shares of the Corporation of any class, now or hereafter authorized, shall have any preferential or preemptive right to subscribe for, purchase or receive any shares of the Corporation of any class, now or hereafter authorized, or any options or warrants for such shares, or any rights to subscribe to or purchase such shares, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares, which may at any time be issued, sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
          
SEVENTH:  As to any act or omission occurring after the adoption of this provision, a director of the Corporation shall, to the maximum extent permitted by the laws of the State of New York, have no personal liability to the Corporation or any of its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, provided that this Article SEVENTH shall not eliminate or
reduce the liability of a director in any case where such elimination or reduction is not permitted by law.
          
EIGHTH:  Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Bylaws to the contrary, each of this Article EIGHTH and the following provisions of the Bylaws may not be amended, modified or repealed, nor may any provisions of this certificate of incorporation or the Bylaws be adopted that are inconsistent with this article or such provisions, without either (i) the unanimous approval of the entire Board of Directors or (ii) the affirmative vote of holders of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Corporation:
The provisions of this Article EIGHTH shall automatically terminate without any action on the part of the Corporation, the Board of Directors or the stockholders upon the termination of the foregoing provisions of the Bylaws in accordance with Article X, Section 3 of the Bylaws.
          
(4)     This restatement, with amendments, of the certificate of incorporation of M&T Bank Corporation was authorized, pursuant to section 807(a) of the Business Corporation Law, by the vote of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation provides that the Board of Directors may fix the designation of one or more series of preferred stock, and may establish all relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series without the approval of the stockholders of the Corporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, signed and verified this certificate this 22
nd
day of May, 2009.
          
Mark J. Czarnecki and Brian R. Yoshida, being first duly sworn, depose and say that they are respectively, the President and an Administrative Vice President and Assistant Secretary of M&T Bank Corporation, that they have read the foregoing certificate and know the contents thereof and that the statements therein contained are true.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
--Creates Largest Branch and ATM network in Baltimore-Washington Corridor
BUFFALO, N.Y., May 26, 2009 /PRNewswire-FirstCall via COMTEX News Network/ -- M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") (NYSE: MTB) announced today that it completed its acquisition of Provident Bankshares Corporation ("Provident") (Nasdaq: PBKS) and the merger of Provident's banking subsidiary, Provident Bank, into M&T Bank, M&T's principal banking subsidiary, on May 23, 2009.
Today, 135 former Provident Bank branches are reopening as branches of M&T Bank, and 190 Provident ATMs have been converted to M&T Bank ATMs. M&T now has more than 300 branches and 740 ATMs in the Baltimore-Washington corridor. In total, M&T Bank has more than 800 branches and more than 1,800 ATMs throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.
"The union of Provident Bank and M&T Bank creates a strong organization with talented employees that will benefit our combined customer base," said Woody Collins, President of M&T Bank's Mid-Atlantic Division. "We are looking forward to serving our new customers, who will find the same friendly and experienced associates serving them now at M&T Bank. Our new customers will have access to the largest branch and ATM network in the Baltimore-Washington corridor and to a wider array of products and services. Our new employees will find that M&T Bank is deeply committed to their success -- and to the success of the customers and communities we serve."
All accounts and balances have been transferred from Provident Bank to M&T Bank, and new checks and ATM cards have been sent to former Provident Bank customers. Rates and terms have not been changed on CDs, installment loans, lines of credit or overdraft protection accounts.
For specific information about the transfer of Provident Bank accounts to M&T Bank, customers can call 1-800-414-9435 or visit
www
.mtb.com/provident
.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Provident common stockholders will receive 0.171625 shares of M&T common stock in exchange for each share of Provident common stock they own and holders of Provident's preferred stock will receive shares of new series of M&T preferred stock having substantially identical terms.
Gary N. Geisel, Provident Chairman and CEO, was named a director of M&T Bank Corporation and M&T Bank, effective upon completion of the merger.
M&T is a bank holding company which had $64.9 billion in assets as of March 31, 2009 and Provident had $6.5 billion in assets on that date. M&T's banking subsidiaries, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National Association, operate branch offices in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey and the District of Columbia.
Investor Contact:  Donald J. MacLeod                     (716) 842-5138
Media Contact:  Philip Hosmer                  (410) 949-3042


