FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20101119154529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On November 16, 2010, the Board of Directors of M&T Bank Corporation (the "Company") restated the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws to eliminate references to the rights of Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. ("AIB"), a former significant stockholder of the Company. On November 18, 2010, the Company filed with the New York State Department of State its Restated Certificate of Incorporation. These actions were taken in response to AIB's disposition of 26.7 million shares of the Company's common stock on November 4, 2010, which as of September 30, 2010, represented 22.4% of the Company's outstanding common stock, upon which the rights of AIB as a significant stockholders of the Company ceased to exist. Copies of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit No.
Description of Exhibit
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The undersigned, being the President and Assistant Secretary of M&T Bank Corporation (the ""), do hereby restate, amend, certify and set forth:
Corporation
(1) The name of the corporation is M&T BANK CORPORATION. The name under which the corporation was formed is First Empire State Corporation.
(2) The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation was filed by the Department of State on the 6th day of November, 1969.
(3) The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as amended heretofore is hereby restated and amended in accordance with Section 807 of the Business Corporation Law by:
Deleting, in its entirety, Article EIGHTH, relating to certain restrictions on amending the Corporation's Bylaws or this restated certificate of incorporation, which Article has terminated as a result of the termination of certain provisions of the Bylaws, such that the text of the
certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as amended heretofore is hereby restated and amended to read as herein set forth in full:
(1) To engage in the business of a bank holding company.
(2) To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to own and hold and exercise all the powers and privileges of ownership and to sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of and deal in and with shares, bonds, and other securities, interests or obligations issued by any person, corporation, firm, or other entity, domestic or foreign.
(3) To the extent permitted by law to cause to be organized, merged or consolidated, any corporation, firm or other entity, domestic or foreign.
(4) To the extent permitted by law to render services, assistance, and advice to, and to act as representative or agent in any capacity of, any person, corporation, firm, or other entity, domestic or foreign.
(5) To arrange for, finance, pay or cause to be paid the compensation of the directors, officers or employees of any corporation, firm, or other entity in the business again of which the Corporation shall have any interest and to adopt, alter or amend any plan or plans for additional compensation to such directors, officers or employees.
(6) To purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire, and to own, improve, mortgage or otherwise encumber, real and personal property, or any interest therein wherever situated.
The foregoing purposes shall be construed in furtherance and not in limitation of powers now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of New York.
THIRD: The office of the Corporation is to be located in the City of Buffalo, County of Erie, and State of New York.
FOURTH: 1. The aggregate number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is two hundred fifty-one million (251,000,000) shares, divided into two classes, namely, preferred shares and common shares. The number of preferred shares authorized is one million (1,000,000) shares of the par value of one dollar ($1.00) per share. The number of common shares authorized is two hundred fifty million (250,000,000) shares of the par value of fifty cents ($0.50) per share.
2. Authority is hereby granted to the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time to issue the preferred shares in one or more series and for such consideration, not less than the par value thereof, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and, before the issuance of any shares of a particular series to fix the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price or prices, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series. In lieu of issuing a new series, the Board of Directors may increase the number of shares of a series already outstanding. Before the issue of any shares of a series established by the Board of Directors, the Board shall cause to be delivered to the Department of State the necessary certificate of amendment under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York as now in effect or hereafter amended.
3. The description of the common shares and of their relative rights and limitations are as follows:
(a) Out of the assets of the Corporation which are by law available for the payment of dividends remaining after all dividends to which any preferred shares then outstanding shall be entitled shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment for all past dividend periods, dividends may be declared and paid upon the common shares to the exclusion of the holders of preferred shares.
(b) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of record of any preferred shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid the amount which the Board of Directors prior to issuance of such preferred shares fixed to be paid for each such share upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up as set forth in the necessary certificate of amendment, as required by Article FOURTH, Paragraph 2 above plus accumulated dividends on such shares up to the date of such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and no more. After payment to the holders of any preferred shares then outstanding of the amount payable to them as aforesaid, the remaining assets of the Corporation shall be payable to and distributed ratably among the holders of record of the common shares.
(c) The holders of the common shares shall vote share for share, together with the holders of any series of the preferred shares entitled to have voting rights except as may be provided by the Board of Directors with respect to any other series of the preferred             shares.
4. A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
Part 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 600,000.
Designation and Number of Shares
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
Designated Preferred Stock
Part 2. . The following terms, including those set forth in the Standard Provisions, are used in this Certificate of Designations as defined below:
Definitions
(a) "" means the common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(b) "" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
(c) "" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(d) "" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
(e) "" means $150,000,000.
Minimum Amount
(f) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Parity Stock
(g) "" means the Original Issue Date.
Signing Date
Part 3. . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
Certain Voting Matters
STANDARD PROVISIONS
Section 1. . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
General Matters
Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Standard Definitions
(a) "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
(b) "" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
(c) "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
(d) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
(e) "" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(f) "" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(g) "" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
(h) "" has the meaning set forth in section 3(a).
Dividend Period
(i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
(k) "" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
Original Issue Date
(l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
(m) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(n) "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
(o) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
(p) "" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
(q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
(r) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
Section 3. .
Dividends
(a) . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "", provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Rate
i.e.
Dividend Period
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
(b) . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Priority of Dividends
provided
Share Dilution Amount
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
pro rata
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
Section 4. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 5. .
Redemption
(a) . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Optional Redemption
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption; that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "" as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
provided
Minimum Amount
Successor Preferred Stock
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
(b) . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
No Sinking Fund
(c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
(d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
(e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
(f) . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
Status of Redeemed Shares
provided
Section 6. . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Conversion
Section 7. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
(b) . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned; that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Preferred Stock Directors
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
provided
(c) . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
provided
however
(d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
(e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
Section 8. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 9. . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 10. . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
Section 11. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Replacement Certificates
Section 12. . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
5. A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
Section 5.1. . There is hereby created a series of Preferred Stock to be designated as the Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (the ""). The number of shares constituting the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 26,500. The number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may not be increased, but may be decreased, but not below the number of shares then outstanding. Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have the same relative powers, preferences and rights as, and shall be identical in all respects with the other shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
Convertible Preferred Stock
Section 5.2. . As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings defined in this Section 5.2. Any capitalized term not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, unless the context otherwise requires:
Certain Definitions
"" shall have the meaning given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor rule thereunder.
Affiliate
"" means the board of directors of the Corporation or, with respect to any action to be taken by such board of directors, any committee of the board of directors duly authorized to take such action.
Board of Directors
"" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(5) hereof.
Buy-In
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Certificate of Incorporation
"" means May 23, 2009.
Closing Date
"" as used herein means the Corporation's common stock, par value $0.50 per share, as the same exists at the Closing Date, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such common stock consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value.
Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(1) hereof.
Conversion Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(2) hereof.
Conversion Notice
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(2) hereof.
Conversion Rate
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1 hereof.
Convertible Preferred Stock
"" means the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Corporate Trust Office
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Corporation
"" of the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) on any Trading Day means the reported last sale price per share (or, if no last sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices per share or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices per share) on such date as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, then as reported by the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock (or such other property) is listed or if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national securities exchange, or, if no closing price for the Common Stock (or such property) is so reported, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock (or such property) in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock (or such property) on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Corporation. For the purposes of this Section 5.2, all references herein to the closing sale price and the last sale price reported of the Common Stock (or other property) on the New York Stock Exchange shall be the closing sale price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service; that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing price and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale price and the last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.
Daily Closing Price
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(1) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
"" means the period ending on the day before a Dividend Payment Date and beginning on the preceding Dividend Payment Date or, if there is no preceding Dividend Payment Date, on the Issue Date.
Dividend Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(1) hereof.
Early Conversion
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(5) hereof.
Early Conversion Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
Electing Share
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
Exchange Property
"" means the Person in whose name the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation and the Transfer Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
Holder
"" shall mean April 14, 2008.
Issue Date
"" means the Corporation's Common Stock and each other class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to or on a parity with the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon the Corporation's liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Junior Stock
"" means, as to the Convertible Preferred Stock, $1,000 per share.
Liquidation Preference
"" means April 1, 2011.
Mandatory Conversion Date
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock (or such other property) or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock (or such other property), and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
"" means the New York Stock Exchange run by NYSE Euronext, Inc.
New York Stock Exchange
"" means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, or the Secretary of the Corporation.
Officer
"" means a certificate of the Corporation, signed by any duly authorized Officer of the Corporation.
Officer's Certificate
"" means the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C and any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series shall rank on a parity with the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Parity Stock
"" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(5) hereof.
Reorganization Event
"" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the primary U.S. national securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded.
Scheduled Trading Day
"" means any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock established after the Closing Date, the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series shall rank senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Senior Stock
"" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or any other securities, cash or other property into which the Convertible Preferred Stock becomes convertible in connection with any Reorganization Event) is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, any day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock (or such other property) is listed is open for trading, or, if the Common Stock (or such other property) is not listed on a national securities exchange, any business day. A "" only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
Trading Day
Trading Day
"" shall mean Registrar and Transfer Company, the Corporation's duly appointed transfer agent, registrar, redemption, conversion and dividend disbursing agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent with 10 days' prior notice to the Transfer Agent; that the Corporation shall appoint a successor Transfer Agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal.
Transfer Agent
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(1)(i) hereof.
Voting Rights Class
Section 5.3. . The Convertible Preferred Stock will, with respect to both dividend rights and rights upon the liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, rank (i) senior to all Junior Stock, (ii) on parity with Parity Stock and (iii) junior to all Senior Stock.
Ranking
Section 5.4. .
Dividends
(1) Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum equal to 10.0% on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Convertible Preferred Stock, and no more, payable in arrears on each May 1, August 1, November 1 and February 1. If any date specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date. With respect to the first Dividend Payment Date, the amount referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph shall include an accrual, as of the Closing Date, in the amount of $6.11 per share. The term "" means May 1, August 1, November 1 and February 1, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day; provided, however, that the first Dividend Payment Date shall be August 1, 2009. The term "" means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the Closing Date for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date; provided, however, that the final Dividend Period shall be from February 1, 2011 to but excluding the Mandatory Conversion Date. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
(2) Dividends on shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Convertible Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Convertible Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.
(3) In the event that in any fiscal quarter the board of directors declares a cash dividend or distribution on its Common Stock in an amount in excess of $0.9614 per share (as adjusted for any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, consolidation or similar transactions), the board of directors shall, in addition to and not in lieu of any dividend declared pursuant to Section 5.4(1) hereof, declare a dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock for the then current Dividend Period at a rate per annum equal to (i) the percentage amount by which the Common Stock dividend exceeds $0.9614 multiplied by (ii) 10.0% (rounded to the nearest one-hundredth).
Section 5.5. Payment Restrictions. So long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock as described in Section 5.4 have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all, or a pro rata portion, of the Convertible Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Convertible Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Section 5.6. .
Voting Rights
(1) The Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise required by New York law from time to time:
(i) So long as any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding, unless a greater percentage shall then be required by law, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and all other shares of any Parity Stock having similar voting rights that are exercisable (the ""), voting as a single class, in person or by proxy, at an annual meeting of the Corporation's shareholders or at a special meeting called for such purpose, or by written consent in lieu of such meeting, alter, repeal or amend, whether by merger, consolidation, combination, reclassification or otherwise, any provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or the provisions hereof if the amendment would amend, alter or affect the powers, preferences or rights of the Convertible Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the Holders thereof, including, without limitation, the creation of, increase in the authorized number of, or issuance of, shares of any class or series of Senior Stock.
Voting Rights Class
(ii) In exercising the voting rights set forth in this Section 5.6(1), each share of Convertible Preferred Stock and any other shares of the Voting Rights Class participating in the vote described above shall be in proportion to the liquidation preference of each such share.
(2) The Corporation may authorize, increase the authorized amount of, or issue any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, without the consent of the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock, and in taking such actions the Corporation shall not be deemed to have affected adversely the rights, preferences, privileges or voting rights of Holders of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
Section 5.7. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up
(1) In the event of any liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, each Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders, the Liquidation Preference plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation, and before any payment or distribution is made on, any Junior Stock, including, without limitation, Common Stock.
(2) Neither the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all the assets or business of the Corporation (other than in connection with the liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of its business) nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other Person shall be deemed to be a liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 5.7.
(3) After the payment to the Holders of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock of full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 5.7, the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
(4) If upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Liquidation Preference of the Convertible Preferred Stock and all Parity Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Stock will share equally and ratably in any distribution of the Corporation's assets in proportion to the full liquidation preference and accumulated and unpaid dividends to which such holders are entitled.
Section 5.8. .
Mandatory Conversion on the Mandatory Conversion Date
(1) Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall automatically convert (unless previously converted at the option of the Holder in accordance with Section 5.9 hereof) on the Mandatory Conversion Date into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate.
(2) The "" shall be equal to 16.345222 shares of Common Stock per share of Convertible Preferred Stock. The Conversion Rate is subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 hereof.
Conversion Rate
(3) The Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock on the Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the Mandatory Conversion Date.
Section 5.9. .
Early Conversion at the Option of the Holder
(1) Shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible, in whole or in part, at the option of the Holder thereof ("") at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 5.13 hereof.
Early Conversion
(2) Any written notice of conversion ("") pursuant to this Section 5.9 shall be duly executed by the Holder, and specify:
Conversion Notice
(i) the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted;
(ii) the name(s) in which such Holder desires the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion to be registered and whether such shares of Common Stock are to be issued in book-entry or certificated form (subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements if any of such certificates are to be issued in a name other than the name of the Holder);
(iii) if certificates are to be issued, the address to which such Holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion; and
(iv) any other transfer forms, tax forms or other relevant documentation required and specified by the Transfer Agent, if necessary, to effect the conversion.
(3) If specified by the Holder in the Conversion Notice that shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be issued to a person other than the Holder surrendering the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock being converted, then the Holder shall pay or cause to be paid any transfer or similar taxes payable in connection with the shares of Common Stock so issued.
(4) Upon receipt by the Transfer Agent of a completed and duly executed Conversion Notice, compliance with Section 5.9(3), if applicable, and surrender of a certificate representing share(s) of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), the Corporation shall, within three Business Days or as soon as possible thereafter, issue and shall instruct the Transfer Agent to register the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion in the name(s) specified by such Holder in the notice of conversion. If a Holder elects to hold its shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock in certificated form, the Corporation shall promptly send or cause to be sent, by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holder thereof, at the address designated by such Holder in the Conversion Notice, a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such Holder or such Holder's designee in the manner provided in the immediately preceding sentence a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock that shall not have been converted.
(5) The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock in respect of the Liquidation Preference of such shares in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed effective immediately prior to the close of business on the day (the "") of receipt by the Transfer Agent of the Conversion Notice and other documents, if any, set forth in Section 5.9(2) hereof, in compliance with Section 5.9(3), if applicable, and the surrender by such Holder or such Holder's designee of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto).
Early Conversion Date
Section 5.10. .
Conversion Procedures
(1) On the Mandatory Conversion Date or any Early Conversion Date (collectively, a ""), any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock converted to Common Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible.
Conversion Date
(2) The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon any such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the close of business on the applicable Conversion Date. No allowance or adjustment, except as set forth in Section 5.13, shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
(3) Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock duly converted in accordance herewith, or otherwise reacquired by the Corporation, shall resume the status of authorized and unissued Preferred Stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
(4) In the event that a Holder of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Convertible Preferred Stock should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder of such Convertible Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records of the Corporation.
(5) In addition to any other rights available to the Holders of Convertible Preferred Stock, if the Corporation fails to cause its Transfer Agent to transmit to a Holder a certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Holder's Convertible Preferred Stock, or to otherwise electronically transfer the shares to an account of the Holder, on or before the third business day after the Corporation's receipt of an executed copy of the Conversion Notice (so long as the applicable certificate or certificates for the Convertible Preferred Stock and the original Conversion Notice are received by the Corporation on or before such third business day) or the Mandatory Conversion Date, and if after such date the Holder is required by its broker to purchase (in an open market transaction or otherwise) shares of Common Stock to deliver in satisfaction of a sale by the Holder of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock which the Holder anticipated receiving upon such conversion (a ""), then the Corporation shall (1) pay in cash to the Holder the amount by which (x) the Holder's total purchase price (including brokerage commissions, if any) for the shares of Common Stock so purchased exceeds (y) the amount obtained by multiplying (A) the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock that the Corporation was required to deliver to the Holder in connection with the conversion at issue times (B) the price at which the sell order giving rise to such purchase obligation was executed, and (2) at the option of the Holder, either reinstate the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and equivalent number of shares of Common Stock for which such conversion was not honored or deliver to the Holder the number of shares of Common Stock that would have been issued had the Corporation timely complied with its conversion and delivery obligations hereunder. For example, if a Holder purchases Common Stock having a total purchase price of $11,000 to cover a Buy-In with respect to an attempted conversion of shares of Common Stock with an aggregate sale price giving rise to such purchase obligation of $10,000, under clause (1) of the immediately preceding sentence the Corporation shall be required to pay to the Holder $1,000. The Holder shall provide the Corporation written notice indicating the amounts payable to the Holder in respect of the Buy-In, together with applicable confirmations and other evidence reasonably requested by the Corporation. Nothing herein shall limit a Holder's right to pursue any other remedies available to it hereunder, at law or in equity including, without limitation, a decree of specific performance and/or injunctive relief with respect to the Corporation's failure to timely deliver certificates representing shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock as required pursuant to the terms hereof.
Buy-In
Section 5.11. .
Reservation of Common Stock
(1) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the treasury of the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 5.11(1), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.
(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock reacquired and held in the treasury of the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such treasury shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
(3) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
(4) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.
(5) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation shall, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock; provided, however, that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.
Section 5.12. .
Fractional Shares
(1) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or as a result of any payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock in shares of Common Stock.
(2) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 5.8 hereof or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 5.9, the Corporation shall at its option either (i) issue to such Holder a whole share of Common Stock or (ii) pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the fraction of the average Daily Closing Price of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the second Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date or Early Conversion Date, as applicable.
(3) If more than one share of the Convertible Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock so surrendered.
Section 5.13. .
Anti-Dilution Adjustments to the Conversion Rate
(1) Stock Dividends and Distributions and Subdivisions, Splits and Combinations of the Common Stock. If the Corporation issues Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock to all holders of the Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination of the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
CR1 = CR0  OS1 / OS0
where:
Any adjustment made pursuant to this subclause (i) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after (x) the date fixed for the determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this subclause (i) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
(2) .
Reserved
(3) .
Calculation of Adjustments
(i) No adjustment in the Conversion Rate will be required unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. If the adjustment is not made because the adjustment does not change the Conversion Rate by at least 1%, then the adjustment that is not made will be carried forward and taken into account in any future adjustment. All required calculations will be made to the nearest cent or 1/10,000th of a share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all adjustments not previously made shall have effect with respect to any conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 5.8 or 5.9.
(ii) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made if Holders may participate in the transaction that would otherwise give rise to such adjustment, so long as the distributed assets or securities the Holders would receive upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stockif such assets or securities are convertible, exchangeable, or exercisableare convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as applicable, without any loss of rights or privileges for a period of at least 45 days following conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock. The applicable Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted:
(A) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in the Common Stock under any plan;
(B) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan, employee agreement or arrangement or program of the Corporation;
(C) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the Issue Date;
(D) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock; or
(E) as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 17.1625 shares of the Common Stock.
(iii) The Corporation shall have the power to resolve any ambiguity and its action in so doing, as evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors, or a duly authorized committee thereof, shall be final and conclusive unless clearly inconsistent with the intent hereof.
(4) . Whenever the Conversion Rate is to be adjusted, the Corporation shall: (i) compute the adjusted Conversion Rate and prepare and transmit to the Transfer Agent an Officer's Certificate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; (ii) as soon as practicable following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to the Conversion Rate (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware), provide, or cause to be provided, a written notice to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock of the occurrence of such event; and (iii) as soon as practicable following the determination of the revised Conversion Rate provide, or cause to be provided, to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the method by which the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the revised Conversion Rate.
Notice of Adjustment
(5) . In the event of:
Reorganization Events
(A) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is the continuing corporation and in which the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger or consolidation are not exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Corporation or another Person),
(B) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, or
(C) any reclassification of the Common Stock into securities including securities other than the Common Stock (any such event specified in paragraphs (A) through (C), a ""),
Reorganization Event
each share of Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be convertible into the kind of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the Conversion Date) per share of Common Stock (the "") by a holder of Common Stock that exercised his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event and in respect of which such rights of election shall have been exercised (""), then, for the purpose of this Section 5.13(5) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by each Electing Share shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the kinds and amounts so receivable per share by the Electing Shares). The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 5.8 or 5.9 hereof shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date.
Exchange Property
Electing Share
The above provisions of this Section 5.13(5) shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 5.13 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitute the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 5.13(5).
(6) For purposes of this Section 5.13, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
Section 5.14. .
Replacement Stock Certificates
(1) If any of the Convertible Preferred Stock certificates shall be mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Corporation shall, at the expense of the Holder, issue, in exchange and in substitution for and upon cancellation of the mutilated Convertible Preferred Stock certificate, or in lieu of and substitution for the Convertible Preferred Stock certificate lost, stolen or destroyed, a new Convertible Preferred Stock certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent amount of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, but only upon receipt of evidence of such loss, theft or destruction of such Convertible Preferred Stock certificate and indemnity, if requested, satisfactory to the Corporation and the Transfer Agent.
(2) The Corporation is not required to issue any certificates representing the Convertible Preferred Stock on or after the Mandatory Conversion Date. In lieu of the delivery of a replacement certificate following the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Transfer Agent, upon delivery of the evidence and indemnity described above, shall deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock formerly evidenced by the certificate.
Section 5.15. . The duly appointed Transfer Agent, Registrar, Redemption, Conversion and Dividend Disbursing Agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be Registrar and Transfer Company. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Corporation and the Transfer Agent; provided that the Corporation shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal. Upon any such removal or appointment, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Transfer Agent, Registrar, Redemption, Conversion and Dividend Disbursing Agent
Section 5.16. .
Miscellaneous
(1) All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Section 5.16) with postage prepaid, addressed: (i) if to the Corporation, to its office at 1 M & T Plaza, Buffalo, NY 14203, Attention: Chief Financial Officer or to the Transfer Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted by this Section 5.16, or (ii) if to any Holder of the Convertible Preferred Stock or holder of shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be), or (iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
(2) The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person other than a payment to the Holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
(3) The Liquidation Preference and the annual dividend rate set forth herein each shall be subject to equitable adjustment whenever there shall occur a stock split, combination, reclassification or other similar event involving the Convertible Preferred Stock. Such adjustments shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and submitted by the Board of Directors to the Transfer Agent.
(4) The Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
(5) Any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Amendment creating a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
6. A series of preferred stock of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and the designation of such series, the number of shares to comprise such series, the dividend rate or rates payable with respect to the shares of such series, the redemption price, the voting rights, and any other relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series, are as follows:
Part 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 151,500.
Designation and Number of Shares
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C
Designated Preferred Stock
Part 2. . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.
Standard Provisions
Part 3. . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:
Definitions
(1) "" means May 23, 2009.
Closing Date
(2) "" means the common stock, par value $0.50 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(3) "" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
(4) "" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(5) "" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
(6) "" means $37,875,000.
Minimum Amount
(7) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock.
Parity Stock
(8) "" means November 14, 2008.
Signing Date
Part 4. . Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent. For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock under Section 7 of the Standard Provisions forming part of this Certificate of Designations, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which such holder's shares are entitled.
Certain Voting Matters
ANNEX A
Section 1. . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
General Matters
Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Standard Definitions
(a) "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
(b) "" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
(c) "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
(d) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
(e) "" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(f) "" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(g) "" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
(h) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Period
(i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
(k) "" means November 14, 2008.
Original Issue Date
(l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
(m) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(n) "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
(o) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
(p) "" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
(q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
(r) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
Section 3. .
Dividends
(a) . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Closing Date and shall include an accrual, as of the Closing Date, in the amount of $1.11 per share, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (i.e., no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur after the Closing Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "," provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Closing Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Rate
Dividend Period
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
(b) . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, provided that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Closing Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Priority of Dividends
Share Dilution Amount
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
Section 4. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 5. .
Redemption
(a) . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Optional Redemption
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption; provided that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "" as defined in the relevant Certificate of Designations for the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, of the Corporation and each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (together, the "") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
Minimum Amount
Successor Preferred Stock
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
(b) . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
No Sinking Fund
(c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
(d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
(e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
(f) . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (provided that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
Status of Redeemed Shares
Section 6. . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Conversion
Section 7. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
(b) . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "" and each a "") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned; provided that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of             shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Preferred Stock Directors
Preferred Directors
Preferred Director
(c) . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any             shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for             shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
provided, however, that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
(d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
(e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
Section 8. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 9. . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 10. . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
Section 11. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Replacement Certificates
Section 12. . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
FIFTH: The Secretary of State is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process against the Corporation may be served. The post office address to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of any process against the Corporation served upon him is Attention: General Counsel, One M&T Plaza, 12th Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203-2399.
SIXTH: No holder of shares of the Corporation of any class, now or hereafter authorized, shall have any preferential or preemptive right to subscribe for, purchase or receive any shares of the Corporation of any class, now or hereafter authorized, or any options or warrants for such shares, or any rights to subscribe to or purchase such shares, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares, which may at any time be issued, sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
SEVENTH: As to any act or omission occurring after the adoption of this provision, a director of the Corporation shall, to the maximum extent permitted by the laws of the State of New York, have no personal liability to the Corporation or any of its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, provided that this Article SEVENTH shall not eliminate or reduce the liability of a director in any case where such elimination or reduction is not permitted by law.
(4) This restatement, with amendments, of the certificate of incorporation of M&T Bank Corporation was authorized, pursuant to section 807(a) of the Business Corporation Law, by the vote of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation provides that the Board of Directors may fix the designation of one or more series of preferred stock, and may establish all relative rights, preferences and limitations pertaining to such series without the approval of the stockholders of the Corporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, signed and verified this
certificate this 16th day of November, 2010.
M&T BANK CORPORATION
By: Mark J. Czarnecki President
/s/ Mark J. Czarnecki
By: Brian R. Yoshida Assistant Secretary
/s/ Brian R. Yoshida
Mark J. Czarnecki and Brian R. Yoshida, being first duly sworn, depose and say that they are, respectively, the President and Assistant Secretary, respectively, of M&T Bank Corporation, that they have read the foregoing certificate and know the contents thereof and that the statements therein contained are true.
/s/ Mark J. Czarnecki
/s/ Brian R. Yoshida
Sworn to before me this 16th day of November, 2010.
Notary Public
/s/ Jonathan Tolpin
M&T Bank Corporation
One M & T Plaza
Buffalo, New York 14203

The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may be set forth in the notice of the meeting, shall be held each year at the principal office of the Corporation or at such other place within or without the State of New York as the Board of Directors shall determine and the notice of the meeting shall specify the hour of day on the third Tuesday in April in each year or at such other date within the period of 60 days next succeeding such date as the Board of Directors shall determine. If that day be a legal holiday in any year, the meeting shall be held on the next following that is not a legal holiday.
Section 1
.
Annual Meeting
:
Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer, and shall be called by the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Secretary at the request in writing of the holders of record of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is to be called. Each special meeting of the stockholders shall be held at such time as the Board of Directors or the person calling the meeting (the Chief Executive Officer, Corporate Secretary or Assistant Secretary, as the case may be) shall determine and the notice of the meeting shall specify, and shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation or at such other place within or without the State of New York as the Board of Directors shall determine or the notice of meeting shall specify.
Section 2
.
Special Meetings
:
Written notice of each meeting of the stockholders shall be given, personally or by mail, not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deposited in the United States mail, with first-class postage thereon prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the record of stockholders, or, if he or she shall have filed with the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to him or her be mailed to some other address, then directed to him or her at such other address. The notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and, unless it is the annual meeting, indicate that the notice is being issued by or at the direction of the person calling the meeting. The notice need not refer to the approval of minutes or to other matters normally incident to the conduct of the meeting. Except for such matters, the business which may be transacted at the meeting shall be confined to business which is related to the purpose or purposes set forth in the notice. If, at any meeting, action is proposed to be taken which would, if taken, entitle dissenting stockholders to receive payment for their shares, the notice of such meeting shall include a statement of that purpose and to that effect.
Section 3
.
Notice of Meetings
:
Whenever under any provision of these Bylaws, the certificate of incorporation, the terms of any agreement or instrument, or law, the Corporation or the Board of Directors or any committee thereof is authorized to take any action after notice to any person or persons or after the lapse of a prescribed period of time, such action may be taken without notice and without the lapse of such period of time, if at any time before or after such action is completed the person or persons entitled to such notice or entitled to participate in the action to be taken or, in the case of a stockholder, by his or her duly authorized attorney-in-fact, submit a signed waiver of notice of such requirements. The attendance of any stockholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by him or her.
Section 4
.
Waiver of Notice
:
At each meeting of stockholders the order of business and all other matters of procedure may be determined by the person presiding at the meeting.
Section 5
.
Procedure
:
A list of stockholders as of the record date, certified by the corporate officer responsible for its preparation or by a transfer agent, shall be produced at any meeting of stockholders upon the request thereat or prior thereto of any stockholder. If the right to vote at any meeting is challenged, the inspectors of election, or person presiding thereat, shall require such list of stockholders to be produced as evidence of the right of the persons challenged to vote at such meeting, and all persons who appear from such list to be stockholders entitled to vote thereat may vote at such meeting.
Section 6
.
List of Stockholders
:
At each meeting of stockholders for the transaction of any business, a quorum shall be present to organize such meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law, a quorum shall consist of the holders of record of not less than a majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, present either in person or by proxy. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting of the stockholders, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholders.
Section 7
.
Quorum
:
The stockholders entitled to vote who are present in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders, whether or not a quorum shall be present at the meeting, shall have power by a majority vote to adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present any business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting and the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting on the original date (whether or not they were present thereat), and no others, shall be entitled to vote at such adjourned meeting.
Section 8
.
Adjournments
:
Section 9
.
Voting; Proxies; Majority Vote Standard for Uncontested Director Elections
:
(a) Each stockholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of stockholders to one vote for each share having voting power standing in his or her name on the record of stockholders of the Corporation on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 3 of Article VI of these Bylaws.
(b) Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person, or may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her by proxy. Any proxy may be signed by such stockholder or his or her duly authorized attorney-in-fact, including by facsimile signature, and shall be delivered to the secretary of the meeting, or may be authorized by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission provided that it can be reasonably determined from such telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission that such proxy was authorized by the stockholder. The signature of a stockholder on any proxy, including without limitation a telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission, may be printed, stamped or written, or provided by other reliable reproduction, provided such signature is executed or adopted by the stockholder with intention to authenticate the proxy. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of 11 months from the date of its execution unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except as otherwise provided by law.
(c) All corporate action to be taken by vote of the stockholders other than the election of directors shall, except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor or against such action. At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the vote required for election of a director by the stockholders shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against the election of a nominee. In a contested election, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of stock entitled to vote thereat shall be the directors. An election shall be deemed to be contested if, as of the record date for such meeting, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board of Directors to be filled by election at the meeting. The vote for directors, or upon any question before a meeting of stockholders, shall not be by ballot unless the person presiding at such meeting shall so direct or any stockholder, present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon, shall so demand.
(d) In the event of an uncontested election of directors, any incumbent director who is a nominee for election as a director and who is not elected by the stockholders shall immediately tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance or rejection by the Board of Directors as provided in this Section 9(d). The independent members of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the procedures established by the Board of Directors, shall decide whether or not to accept such resignation within 90 days after the date the results of the election are certified and the Corporation shall promptly disclose and explain such decision in a document furnished or filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The independent members of the Board of Directors in making their decision, may consider any factors or other information that they consider appropriate and relevant, including the recommendation of the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. The director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such director's resignation is rejected by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Article I, Section 9, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Article II, Section 5 or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Article II, Section 1.
The Board of Directors shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof, and may appoint one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to appear or act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed, or in case any inspector or alternate inspector appointed fails to appear or act, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment made by the person presiding thereat. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. No person who is a candidate for the office of director of the Corporation shall act as an inspector at any meeting of the stockholders at which directors are elected.
Section 10
.
Appointment of Inspectors of Election
:
Whenever one or more inspectors of election may be appointed as provided in these Bylaws, he, she or they shall determine the number of shares outstanding and entitled to vote, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, the validity and effect of proxies, and shall receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, ballots, or consents, determine the result, and do such acts as are proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders.
Section 11
.
Duties of Inspectors of Election
:
At an annual or special meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of the meeting, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.
Section 12
.
Advance Notice of Proposals
:
For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders pursuant to clause (c) above, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof to the Corporate Secretary and such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Corporate Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the following dates: (1) at the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders if the date of the annual meeting is not changed more than 30 days from the date of the preceding year's annual meeting, and (2) with respect to any other annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders, the close of business on the tenth day following the date of public disclosure of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the names and business addresses of the stockholder and all Persons (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the date of adoption of these Bylaws) acting in concert with the stockholder; (ii) the names and addresses of the stockholder and the Persons identified in clause (i), as they appear on the Corporation's books (if they so appear); and (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation beneficially owned by the stockholder and the Persons identified in clause (i), (b) as to the business being proposed, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting; (ii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting; and (iii) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (c) such other information as the Board of Directors reasonably determines is necessary or appropriate to enable the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Corporation to consider the proposal. The person presiding at the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this section and, if he or she shall so determine, he or she shall declare to the meeting that any business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
The number of directors constituting the entire Board shall not be less than three, except that where all the shares of the Corporation are owned beneficially and of record by less than three stockholders, the number of directors may be less than three, but not less than the number of stockholders. Subject to any provision as to the number of directors contained in the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, the exact number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by action of the stockholders or by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, provided that no decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. If the number of directors be increased at any time, the vacancy or vacancies in the Board arising from such increase shall be filled as provided in Section 5 of this Article II. All of the directors shall be at least twenty-one years of age.
Section 1
.
Number and Qualifications
:
Except as otherwise specified by law or these Bylaws, each director of the Corporation shall be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or at any meeting of the stockholders held in lieu of such annual meeting, which meeting, for the purposes of these Bylaws, shall be deemed the annual meeting, and shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor has been elected and qualified.
Section 2
.
Election and Term of Office
:
Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving his or her resignation to the President or any Vice President or the Corporate Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 3
.
Resignation
:
Any director may be removed for cause, at any meeting of stockholders notice of which shall have referred to the proposed action, by vote of the stockholders. Any director may be removed without cause, at any meeting of stockholders notice of which shall have referred to the proposed action, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote. Any director may be removed for cause, at any meeting of the directors notice of which shall have referred to the proposed action, by vote of three-fourths of the entire Board of Directors.
Section 4
.
Removal of Directors
:
Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors for any reason except the removal of directors may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum exists. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors by reason of the removal of a director by stockholders may be filled by vote of the stockholders at the meeting at which such action is taken or at any meeting of stockholders notice of which shall have referred to the proposed election. Subject If any such newly created directorships or vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors for any reason shall not be filled prior to the next annual meeting of stockholders, they shall be filled by vote of the stockholders at such annual meeting. Any director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected to hold office for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor.
Section 5
.
Vacancies
:
Directors, except salaried officers who are directors, may receive a fee for their services as directors and traveling and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending any regular or special meeting of the Board. The fee may be a fixed sum to be paid for attending each meeting of the Board of Directors and/or a fixed sum to be paid monthly, quarterly, or semiannually, irrespective of the number of meetings attended or not attended. The amount of the fee and the basis on which it shall be paid shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 6
.
Directors' Fees
:
The first meeting of the newly elected Board of Directors may be held immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders, and at the same place as such annual meeting of stockholders, provided a quorum be present, and no notice of such meeting shall be necessary. In the event such first meeting of the newly elected Board of Directors is not held at said time and place, the same shall be held as provided in Section 8 of this Article II.
Section 7
.
First Meeting of Newly Elected Directors
:
Regular and special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and at such place, within or without the State of New York, as the Board of Directors may determine. Special meetings may also be called by the Chief Executive Officer or by any four members of the Board, and shall be held at such time and at such place as the person or persons calling the meeting shall determine.
Section 8
.
Meetings of Directors
:
Notice of each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, stating the time and place thereof shall be given by the Corporate Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or any member of the Board to each member of the Board not less than three days before the meeting by depositing the same in the United States mail, with first-class postage thereon prepaid, directed to each member of the Board at the address designated by him or her for such purpose (or, if none is designated, at his or her last known address), or not less than two days before the meeting by either delivering the same to each member of the Board personally, or sending the same by electronic mail, facsimile or telegraph, or delivering it, to the address designated by him or her for such purpose (or, if none is designated, to his or her last known address). Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who submits a signed waiver of notice whether before or after the meeting. The notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purposes for which the meeting is called, except as provided in Section 4 of this Article II and as provided in Article X of these Bylaws.
Section 9
.
Notice of Meetings
:
At all meetings of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, a quorum shall be required for the transaction of business and shall consist of not less than one-third of the entire Board, and the vote of a majority of the directors present shall decide any question that may come before the meeting. A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting to another time or place without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned.
Section 10
.
Quorum and Action by the Board
:
The order of business and all other matters of procedure at every meeting of directors may be determined by the person presiding at the meeting.
Section 11
.
Procedure
:
Any one or more members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Section 12
.
Meetings by Conference Telephone
:
The Board of Directors shall annually, at the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders, appoint or elect a Chairman of the Board who shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may from time to time prescribe. The Chairman of the Board shall, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, hold office until the first meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor has been elected or appointed and qualified.
Section 13
.
The Chairman of the Board
:
The Board of Directors shall annually, at the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders, appoint or elect one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board who shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may from time to time prescribe. The Vice Chairmen of the Board shall, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, hold office until the first meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been elected or appointed and qualified. The Board of Directors shall elect a non-executive Vice Chairman of the Board who will perform the duties of "lead outside director."
Section 14
.
The Vice Chairmen of the Board
:
The Board of Directors, by resolution or resolutions adopted by a majority of the entire Board, shall designate from among its members an Executive Committee, a Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee, each consisting of three or more directors, and may designate from among its members other committees, each consisting of such number of directors as the Board may determine, and may designate one or more directors as alternate members of such committees, who may replace any absent or disqualified member or members at any meeting of such committees. In the interim between meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall have all the authority of the Board of Directors except as otherwise provided by law. The Executive Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Each other committee so designated shall have such name as may be provided from time to time in the resolution or resolutions, shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and shall have, to the extent provided in such resolution or resolutions, all the authority of the Board of Directors except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 1
.
Designation of Committees
:
All acts done and power and authority conferred by the Executive Committee, the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee, and each other committee from time to time within the scope of its respective authority shall be, and may be deemed to be, and may be specified as being, the act and under the authority of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee shall meet at such time and place and upon such notice as the respective committee may from time to time determine. Meetings of the Executive Committee may also be called by the Chief Executive Officer, and meetings of the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee, and each other committee may also be called the Chair of each such committee, and such meetings shall be held at such time and place as the Chief Executive Officer or Chair, as the case may be, shall determine. The Executive Committee, the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee, and each other committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and report its actions to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 2
.
Acts and Proceedings
:
Members of any committee of the Board of Directors, except salaried officers who are directors, may receive such compensation for their services as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine.
Section 3
.
Compensation
:
The Board of Directors shall annually, at the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders, appoint or elect a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Corporate Secretary and a Treasurer, and such other officers as it may determine, and may at any other meeting and from time to time elect or appoint such additional officers as it may determine. Such additional officers shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 1
.
Officers
:
The President, the Vice Presidents, the Corporate Secretary and the Treasurer shall, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, hold office until the first meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been elected or appointed and qualified. Each additional officer appointed or elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office for such term as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors and until his or her successor has been elected or appointed and qualified. Any officer, however, may be removed or have his or her authority suspended by the Board of Directors at any time, with or without cause. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the Board of Directors shall have the power to fill such vacancy.
Section 2
.
Term of Office
:
The Board of Directors may from time to time designate one of the officers of the Corporation as Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall, under the control of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, have the general management of the Corporation's business affairs and property and shall exercise general supervision over all activities of the Corporation and the other officers. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to appoint or hire, to remove, and to determine the compensation of, all employees of the Corporation who are not officers, and to delegate the foregoing powers from time to time in whole or in part. Unless such authority is otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee for the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors.
Section 3
.
The Chief Executive Officer
:
In the absence or incapacity of the Chief Executive Officer the powers and duties of that office shall be vested in such other officer as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, or, in the absence of any such designation, by the Chief Executive Officer.
If the Board of Directors has not designated another officer as Chief Executive Officer, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
Section 4
.
The President
:
The Corporate Secretary shall issue notices of all meetings of stockholders and directors where notices of such meetings are required by law or these Bylaws. He or she shall attend all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors and keep the minutes thereof. He or she shall affix the corporate seal to and sign such instruments as require the seal and his or her signature and shall perform such other duties as usually pertain to his or her office or as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.
Section 5
.
The Corporate Secretary
:
Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except the office of President and Corporate Secretary, but no officer shall execute or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument be required by law or otherwise to be executed or verified by two or more officers.
Section 6
.
Officers Holding Two or More Offices
:
In case of the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, or in case of a vacancy in any office or for any other reason that the Board of Directors may deem sufficient, the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law, may temporarily delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officer or to any director.
Section 7
.
Duties of Officers May be Delegated
:
The Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee shall, through appropriate consultation with the Board of Directors, determine the compensation and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers of the Corporation. In the event and to the extent that the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee shall not hereafter exercise its discretionary power in respect of all other officers, the compensation to be paid to all other officers shall be determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 8
.
Compensation
:
Each officer of the Corporation shall have general power and authority in connection with all aspects of the business and operations of the Corporation as necessary or appropriate, including to sign on behalf of the Corporation and affix its seal, or cause the same to be affixed to, all instruments, documents or papers necessary for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. The powers and authority conferred herein may at any time be modified, changed, extended or revoked, and may be conferred in whole or in part on other employees or agents of the Corporation by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
Section 9
.
Power of Officers
:
The Board of Directors may require any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties, in such amount as may be satisfactory to the Board.
Section 10
.
Security
:
Each director and officer of the Corporation, whether or not then in office, and any person whose testator or intestate was such a director or officer, shall be indemnified by the Corporation for the defense of, or in connection with, any threatened, pending or completed actions or proceedings and appeals therein, whether civil, criminal, governmental, administrative or investigative, in accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or other applicable law, as such law now exists or may hereafter be amended; provided, however, that the Corporation shall provide indemnification in connection with an action or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such a director or officer only if such action or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 1
.
Right of Indemnification
:
Expenses incurred by a director or officer in connection with any action or proceeding as to which indemnification may be given under Section 1 of this Article V may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action or proceeding upon (a) receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such advancement in the event that such director or officer is ultimately found not to be entitled to indemnification as authorized by this Article V and (b) approval by the Board of Directors acting by a quorum consisting of directors who are not parties to such action or proceeding or, if such a quorum is not obtainable, then approval by stockholders. To the extent permitted by law, the Board of Directors or, if applicable, the stockholders, shall not be required under this Section 2, to find that the director or officer has met the applicable standard of conduct provided by law for indemnification in connection with such action or proceeding.
Section 2
.
Advancement of Expenses
:
To the extent permitted under applicable law, the rights of indemnification and to the advancement of expenses provided in this Article V (a) shall be available with respect to events occurring prior to the adoption of this Article V, (b) shall continue to exist after any recision or restrictive amendment of this Article V with respect to events occurring prior to such recision or amendment, (c) may be interpreted on the basis of applicable law in effect at the time of the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the action or proceeding, or on the basis of applicable law in effect at the time such rights are claimed, and (d) are in the nature of contract rights which may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction as if the Corporation and the director or officer for whom such rights are sought were parties to a separate written agreement.
Section 3
.
Availability and Interpretation
:
The rights of indemnification and to the advancement of expenses provided in this Article V shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any such director, officer or other person may now or hereafter be otherwise entitled whether contained in the certificate of incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of stockholders, a resolution of the Board of Directors, or an agreement providing such indemnification, the creation of such other rights being hereby expressly authorized. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the rights of indemnification and to the advancement of expenses provided in this Article V shall not be deemed exclusive of any rights, pursuant to statute or otherwise, of any such director, officer or other person in any such action or proceeding to have assessed or allowed in his or her favor, against the Corporation or otherwise, his or her costs and expenses incurred therein or in connection therewith or any part thereof.
Section 4
.
Other Rights
:
If this Article V or any part hereof shall be held unenforceable in any respect by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall be deemed modified to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable, and the remainder of this Article V shall remain fully enforceable.
Section 5
.
Severability
:
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of shares of the Corporation either in certificated or uncertificated form, which uncertificated shares may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, or a combination of both. Shares issued in certificated form shall be represented by certificates which shall be numbered and shall be entered in the records of the Corporation as they are issued. Each share certificate shall when issued state upon the face thereof that the Corporation is formed under the laws of the State of New York, the name of the person or persons to whom issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, which such certificate represents and shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or President and by the Corporate Secretary and shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of the officers upon a certificate may be a facsimile if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the Corporation itself or its employee. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of issue. No certificate shall be valid until countersigned by a transfer agent if the Corporation has a transfer agent, or until registered by a registrar if the Corporation has a registrar. If shares are issued in uncertificated form, each stockholder shall be entitled upon written request to a stock certificate or certificates in the form prescribed above.
Section 1
.
Certificate of Shares
:
Shares of the Corporation shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon the surrender of the certificate representing such shares properly endorsed, or other evidence of ownership if no certificate shall have been issued, and payment of all taxes thereon. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share as the owner thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof. The Board of Directors, to the extent permitted by law, shall have power and authority to make all rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of share certificates and may appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars of the shares of the Corporation.
Section 2
.
Transfer of Shares
:
The Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a day and hour not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date on which any meeting of the stockholders is to be held, as the time as of which stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting and at all adjournments thereof shall be determined; and, in the event such record date and time are fixed by the Board of Directors, no one other than the holders of record on such date and time of shares entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting shall be entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. If a record date and time shall not be fixed by the Board of Directors for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, stockholders of record at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, and no others, shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof; provided, however, that if no notice of such meeting is given, stockholders of record at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which such meeting is held, and no others, shall be entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Section 3
.
Fixing of Record Time
:
The Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a day and hour, not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date fixed for the payment of a dividend of any kind or the allotment of any rights, as the record time for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or rights, and in such case only stockholders of record at the date and time so fixed shall be entitled to receive such dividend or rights; provided, however, that if no record date and time for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or rights are fixed, stockholders of record at the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the Board of Directors authorizing the payment of such dividend or the allotment of such rights is adopted shall be entitled to receive such dividend or rights.
The Corporation shall keep at its office in the State of New York, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar in this State, a record containing the names and addresses of all stockholders, the number and class of shares held by each and the dates when they respectively became the owners of record thereof.
Section 4
.
Record of Stockholders
:
The Board of Directors may in its discretion cause a new certificate for shares to be issued by the Corporation in place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost or destroyed, and the Board may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate; but the Board of Directors may in its discretion refuse to issue such new certificate save upon the order of the court having jurisdiction in such matters.
Section 5
.
Lost Share Certificates
:
The funds of the Corporation shall be deposited in its name with such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. All checks, notes, drafts and other negotiable instruments of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, employee or employees, agent or agents as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. No officers, employees or agents of the Corporation, alone or with others, shall have power to make any checks, notes, drafts or other negotiable instruments in the name of the Corporation or to bind the Corporation thereby, except as provided in this Section.
Section 1
.
Corporate Funds
:
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors.
Section 2
.
Fiscal Year
:
The seal of the Corporation shall be in such form as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. The seal on any corporate obligation for the payment of money may be facsimile.
Section 1
.
Form of Seal
:
The provisions of this Article IX may be declared effective by the New York State Defense Council as constituted under the New York State Defense Emergency Act, as amended, in the event of attack and shall cease to be effective when the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack.
Section 1
.
Taking Effect
:
Upon the effectiveness of this Article IX and until the Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack, the affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by such directors theretofore elected pursuant to Article II of these Bylaws as are available to act, and a majority of such directors available to act shall constitute a quorum. In the event, however, that there are less than three such directors available to act, the director or directors available to act shall appoint a sufficient number of emergency directors to make a Board of three directors. Each emergency director shall serve until the vacancy he or she was appointed to fill can again be filled by the previously elected director, except, however, that the period of his or her service shall end at such time as his or her appointment is terminated pursuant to Section 3 of this Article IX, or at such time as the New York State Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack and his or her successor shall be elected and qualified pursuant to Article II of these Bylaws. If, in the event of attack, there are no directors available to act, then the three highest paid officers of the Corporation available to act shall constitute the emergency Board of Directors until one or more of the previously elected directors are again available to act, except, however, that the period of their service as emergency directors shall end at such time as their service is terminated pursuant to Section 3 of this Article IX, or at such time as the New York State Defense Council declares the end of the period of attack and their successors shall be elected and qualified pursuant to Article II of these Bylaws.
Section 2
.
Quorum and Filling of Vacancies
:
The stockholders of the Corporation or the previously elected director or directors who are available to act may, pursuant to the provisions of Article II of these Bylaws, terminate the appointment or the period of service of any emergency director at any time and fill any vacancy created thereby.
Section 3
.
Termination of Period of Service
:
The Bylaws of the Corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed at any meeting of stockholders notice of which shall have referred to the proposed action, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Corporation at the time entitled to vote in the election of any directors, or at any meeting of the Board of Directors notice of which shall have referred to the proposed action, by the vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided, however, that no amendment of the Bylaws pertaining to the election of directors or the procedures for the calling and conduct of a meeting of stockholders shall affect the election of directors or the procedures for the calling or conduct in respect of any meeting of stockholders unless adequate notice thereof is given to the stockholders in a manner reasonably calculated to provide stockholders with sufficient time to respond thereto prior to such meeting.
Section 1
.
Procedure for Amending Bylaws
:
The Corporation has expressly elected not to be governed by the provisions of Section 912 of the Business Corporation Law of New York. Until this bylaw is amended or repealed in the manner provided by law, none of the business combination provisions of Section 912 of the Business Corporation Law of New York shall apply to the Corporation.
Section 1
.
Election
:


