FILE:MTB/MTB-8K-20121102075834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 2, 2012, representatives of M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") will deliver a presentation to analysts and investors at the BancAnalysts Association of Boston Conference in Boston, Massachusetts. M&T's presentation is scheduled to begin at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. A copy of this presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.
The information in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing of M&T under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference in such filing.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 giving M&T's expectations or predictions of future financial or business performance or conditions. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "target," "estimate," "continue," "positions," "prospects" or "potential," by future conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could" or "may", or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we assume no duty to update forward-looking statements.
On August 27, 2012, M&T Bank Corporation, a New York corporation ("M&T"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Hudson City Bancorp, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Hudson City") and Wilmington Trust Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T ("WTC"). The Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Hudson City will merge with and into WTC, with WTC continuing as the surviving entity (the "Merger"). In addition to factors previously disclosed in M&T's reports filed with the SEC and those identified elsewhere in this filing, the following factors among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: ability to obtain regulatory approvals and meet other closing conditions to the Merger, including approval by M&T and Hudson City shareholders, on the expected terms and schedule; delay in closing the Merger; difficulties and delays in integrating the M&T and Hudson City businesses or fully realizing cost savings and other benefits; business disruption following the Merger; changes in asset quality and credit risk; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in interest rates and capital markets; inflation; customer acceptance of M&T products and services; customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices; customer disintermediation; the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives; competitive conditions; the inability to realize cost savings or revenues or to implement integration plans and other consequences associated with mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; economic conditions; and the impact, extent and timing of technological changes, capital management activities, and other actions of the Federal Reserve Board and legislative and regulatory actions and reforms.
 
Important Additional Information.
In connection with the Merger, M&T filed with the SEC on October 15, 2012 a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a Joint Proxy Statement of M&T and Hudson City and a preliminary Prospectus of M&T (together with the Joint Proxy Statement, as amended, the "Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus"), as well as other relevant documents concerning the proposed transaction. SHAREHOLDERS OF M&T AND HUDSON CITY ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE MERGER AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
A free copy of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about M&T and Hudson City, may be obtained at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). You are also able to obtain these documents, free of charge, from M&T at www.mtb.com under the tab "About Us" and then under the heading "Investor Relations" or from Hudson City by accessing Hudson City's website at www.hcsbonline.com under the heading "Investor Relations." Copies of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus can also be obtained, free of charge, by directing a request to Investor Relations, One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203, (716) 842-5445.
M&T and Hudson City and certain of their directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the shareholders of M&T and Hudson City in connection with the Merger. Information about the directors and executive officers of M&T and their ownership of M&T common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for M&T's 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, as filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A on March 7, 2012. Information about the directors and executive officers of Hudson City and their ownership of Hudson City common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for Hudson City's 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, as filed with the SEC on a Schedule 14A on March 19, 2012. Additional information regarding the interests of those participants and other persons who may be deemed participants in the transaction may be obtained by reading the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus regarding the Merger. Free copies of this document may be obtained as described in the preceding paragraph.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 



