Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and (3) Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements located at the end of this Report. Financial information relating to certain geographic areas also is included in these Notes. AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR General We sell cars and trucks throughout the world. In 2005, we sold approximately 6,818,000 vehicles throughout the world. Our automotive vehicle brands include Ford, Mercury, Lincoln, Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar and Aston Martin. Substantially all of our cars, trucks and parts are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors and dealers outside of North America, the substantial majority of which are independently owned. At December 31, 2005, the approximate number of dealers and distributors worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows: Brand Number of Dealerships at December 31, 2005* Ford 10,134 Mercury 1,971 Lincoln 1,422 Volvo 2,400 Land Rover 1,400 Jaguar 880 Aston Martin 125 * Because many of these dealerships distribute more than one of our brands from the same sales location, a single dealership may be counted under more than one brand. 2 ITEM 1. Business (continued) In addition to the products we sell to our dealers for retail sale, we also sell cars and trucks to our dealers for sale to fleet customers, including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. Sales to all of our fleet customers in the United States in the aggregate have represented between 23% and 27% of our total U.S. car and truck sales for the last five years. We do not depend on any single customer or small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group of customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to producing and selling cars and trucks, we also provide retail customers with a wide range of after the sale vehicle services and products through our dealer network, in areas such as maintenance and light repair, heavy repair, collision, vehicle accessories and extended service warranty. In North America, we market these products and services under several brands, including Genuine Ford and Lincoln Mercury Parts and ServiceSM, Ford Extended Service PlanSM, and MotorcraftSM. The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included, is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over which we have little control. This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle. The decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo political events and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks and the availability and cost of credit and fuel). Accordingly, the number of cars and trucks sold (commonly referred to as "industry demand") may vary substantially from year to year. The automotive industry is also a highly competitive, cyclical business that has a wide and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of increasingly global manufacturers. Our unit sales vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand. In the short term, our unit sales also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory. Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, and functionality. Our share also can be affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions. Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, can impact our sales and earnings significantly. The profitability of vehicle sales is affected by many factors, including the following: unit sales volume; the mix of vehicles and options sold; the margin of profit on each vehicle sold; the level of "incentives" (e.g., price discounts) and other marketing costs; the costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions; and the costs for safety, emission and fuel economy technology and equipment. Further, because Ford and other manufacturers have a high proportion of costs that are relatively fixed (including labor costs), small changes in unit sales volumes can significantly affect overall profitability. In addition, the automobile industry continues to face a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by industry excess capacity. For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other marketing incentives to purchasers to maintain their market shares and production levels. A discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth below in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." Competitive Position. The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer. Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin. Detailed information regarding our competitive position in the principal markets where we compete can be found below as part of the overall discussion of the automotive industry in those markets. 3 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Seasonality. We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize sales proceeds in revenue) when it is produced and shipped to our customer (i.e., our dealer or distributor). We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealers and distributors for sale to retail and fleet customers) and retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealers and distributors to their customers at retail). We experience some fluctuation in the business of a seasonal nature. Generally, North American production is higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer, which are usually the strongest sales months of the year. Third quarter production is typically the lowest of the year, owing to the annual two week vacation shutdown of our manufacturing facilities during this quarter. As a result, operating results for the third quarter typically are less favorable than those of the other quarters. Raw Materials. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for use in the production of our vehicles from numerous suppliers around the world. These raw materials include non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas) and resins (e.g., polypropylene). We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our needs. However, there are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain of these raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs. See "Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview" for a discussion of commodity price trends, and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Commodity Price Risk" for a discussion of commodity price risks. Backlog Orders. We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. Intellectual Property. We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis. Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. As such, we have generated a large number of patents related to the operation of our business and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. We currently have approximately 12,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio being just over 5 years. In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we believe these patents, patent applications and know how, in the aggregate, to be important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, and the loss of any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business. Warranty Coverage and Additional Service Actions. Ford Motor Company or Ford Motor Vehicle Assurance Company, a subsidiary of Ford Motor Company, presently provides warranties on all vehicles sold by Ford Motor Company. Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale. The types of warranty coverage offered include base coverage (e.g., "bumper to bumper" coverage in the United States on Ford brand vehicles for 36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever occurs first), safety restraint coverage, and corrosion coverage. In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions defects and emissions performance warranty coverage. Pursuant to these warranties, Ford Motor Company will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Estimated warranty and additional service action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued for at the time of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty and additional service action costs are based on historical experience and subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience. Warranty accrual adjustments required when actual warranty claim experience differs from our estimates may have a material impact on our financial condition. For additional information with respect to costs for warranty and additional service actions, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" and Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 4 ITEM 1. Business (continued) United States Sales Data. The following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars and trucks for the years indicated: U.S. Industry Sales Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (millions of units) Cars 7.7 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.4 Trucks 9.8 9.8 9.4 9.0 9.1 Total 17.5 17.3 17.0 17.1 17.5 We classify cars by small, medium, large and premium segments, and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full size pickup, sport utility vehicles and medium/heavy segments. However, with the introduction of crossover vehicles, the distinction between traditional cars and trucks has become more difficult to draw, and these vehicles are not consistently classified as either cars or trucks across vehicle manufacturers. In the tables above and below, we have classified crossover vehicles as sport utility vehicles. In addition, we have classified as "premium" all of our luxury cars, regardless of size; premium sport utility vehicles and crossovers are included in "trucks." Annually, we conduct a comprehensive review of many factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally results in a change of classification for certain vehicles. The following tables show the proportion of U.S. car and truck unit sales by segment for the industry (including both domestic and foreign based manufacturers) and Ford (including all of our brands sold in the United States) for the years indicated: U.S. Industry Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 CARS Small 16.7 % 15.9 % 16.4 % 17.3 % 18.4 % Medium 12.6 13.6 14.8 15.6 15.8 Large 7.0 6.3 6.1 6.9 7.1 Premium 7.7 7.6 7.6 7.5 6.9 Total U.S. Industry Car Sales 44.0 43.4 44.9 47.3 48.2 TRUCKS Compact Pickup 3.9 % 4.0 % 4.4 % 4.7 % 5.1 % Bus/Van 8.2 8.2 8.0 8.6 8.7 Full Size Pickup 14.5 14.6 14.0 13.1 13.4 Sport Utility Vehicles 26.7 27.6 27.0 24.9 23.0 Medium/Heavy 2.7 2.2 1.7 1.4 1.6 Total U.S. Industry Truck Sales 56.0 56.6 55.1 52.7 51.8 Total U.S. Industry Vehicle Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Ford Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment in U.S. Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 CARS Small 10.9 % 10.2 % 11.4 % 12.5 % 14.0 % Medium 7.7 8.8 10.4 11.9 11.5 Large 8.3 5.0 4.8 4.4 5.2 Premium 5.9 6.6 7.0 7.8 7.0 Total Ford U.S. Car Sales 32.8 30.6 33.6 36.6 37.7 TRUCKS Compact Pickup 3.8 % 4.7 % 6.0 % 6.2 % 6.9 % Bus/Van 8.4 8.8 8.4 9.1 9.1 Full Size Pickup 28.4 28.2 24.3 22.5 22.9 Sport Utility Vehicles 26.1 27.4 27.5 25.4 23.2 Medium/Heavy 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total Ford U.S. Truck Sales 67.2 69.4 66.4 63.4 62.3 Total Ford U.S. Vehicle Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 5 ITEM 1. Business (continued) As the tables above indicate, there has been a general shift from cars to trucks for both industry sales and Ford sales; 2005 is the first year in recent years in which segmentation shifted back toward cars. Prior to 2005, both industry and Fords truck mix had been increasing since 2001, reflecting higher sales of sport utility vehicles and full size pickups. In 2005, in line with industry trends, Fords sport utility vehicle sales as a percent of total sales declined, while large and small car percentages increased. The increase in 2005 in the proportion of large cars sold by Ford largely reflects the introduction of new models in this segment (e.g., Ford Five Hundred and Mercury Montego). Market Share Data. Our principal competitors in the United States include General Motors Corporation, DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, Honda Motor Company and Nissan Motor Company. The following tables show changes in U.S. car and truck market share for Ford (including all of our brands sold in the U.S.), and for the other five leading vehicle manufacturers for the years indicated. The percentages in each of the following tables represent the percentage of the combined car and truck industry: U.S. Car Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 6.0 % 5.9 % 6.9 % 7.7 % 8.6 % General Motors 10.0 10.9 11.5 12.1 13.0 DaimlerChrysler 4.0 3.8 3.8 4.1 4.1 Toyota 7.4 6.4 5.9 5.8 5.5 Honda 4.8 4.9 4.8 4.9 5.1 Nissan 3.3 3.1 3.0 2.5 2.4 All Other** 8.5 8.4 9.0 10.2 9.5 Total U.S. Car Retail Deliveries 44.0 % 43.4 % 44.9 % 47.3 % 48.2 % U.S. Truck Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 12.2 % 13.4 % 13.6 % 13.4 % 14.2 % General Motors 15.8 16.2 16.4 16.2 15.0 DaimlerChrysler 10.5 10.3 10.0 10.0 10.1 Toyota 5.6 5.5 5.1 4.5 4.5 Honda 3.6 3.2 3.1 2.4 1.8 Nissan 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.5 1.7 All Other** 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.7 4.5 Total U.S. Truck Retail Deliveries 56.0 % 56.6 % 55.1 % 52.7 % 51.8 % U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 18.2 % 19.3 % 20.5 % 21.1 % 22.8 % General Motors 25.8 27.1 27.9 28.3 28.0 DaimlerChrysler 14.5 14.1 13.8 14.1 14.2 Toyota 13.0 11.9 11.0 10.3 10.0 Honda 8.4 8.1 7.9 7.3 6.9 Nissan 6.2 5.7 4.7 4.4 4.1 All Other** 13.9 13.8 14.2 14.5 14.0 Total U.S. Car and Truck Retail Deliveries 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % * All U.S. retail sales data are based on publicly available information from the media and trade publications. ** "All Other" includes primarily companies based in Korea, other Japanese manufacturers and various European manufacturers, and, with respect to the U.S. Truck Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market Shares table, includes heavy truck manufacturers. The decline in overall market share for Ford since 2001 is primarily the result of several factors, including increased competition, a recent shift away from our stronger segments (e.g., traditional sport utility vehicles) and the discontinuation of a number of vehicles such as Ford Escort, Ford Explorer Sport, Mercury Cougar, Mercury Villager and Lincoln Continental. 6 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Fleet Sales. The sales data and market share information provided above include both retail and fleet sales. Fleet sales include sales to daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. The table below shows our fleet sales (including all brands) in the United States, and the amount of those sales as a percentage of our total U.S. car and truck sales for the last five years: Ford Fleet Sales Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Daily Rental Units 450,000 429,000 444,000 459,000 465,000 Commercial and Other Units 263,000 248,000 227,000 252,000 295,000 Government Units 141,000 133,000 124,000 123,000 143,000 Total Fleet Units 854,000 810,000 795,000 834,000 903,000 Percent of Fords total U.S. car and truck sales 27 % 24 % 23 % 23 % 23 % Total fleet sales increased in 2004 and 2005, reflecting a stronger fleet industry. Similarly, increased daily rental unit sales in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected strong segment demand. Europe Market Share Information. Outside of the United States, Europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and trucks. We consider Europe to consist of the following 19 markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and Poland. The automotive industry in Europe is intensely competitive. Our principal competitors in Europe include General Motors Corporation, Volkswagen A.G. Group, PSA Group, Renault Group and Fiat SpA. For the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held between 69% and 74% of the total car market. This competitive environment is expected to intensify further as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in Europe, and all of the other (non Ford) manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes Benz and Audi) continue to broaden their product offerings. For this discussion, 2005 market data are based on estimated registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual 2004 registrations. In 2005, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately 17.5 million cars and trucks in Europe, down 0.1% from 2004 levels. Our combined car and truck market share in Europe (including all of our brands sold in Europe) in 2005 was 10.8% (down 0.1 percentage points from 2004). Britain and Germany are our most important markets within Europe. Any adverse change in the British or German market has a significant effect on our total European automotive profits. For 2005 compared with 2004, total industry sales were down 4.4% in Britain and up 1.7% in Germany. Our combined car and truck market share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 19.5% in Britain (down 0.2 percentage points from the previous year), and 8.6% in Germany (down 0.2 percentage points from the previous year). Although not included in the primary 19 markets above, several additional markets in the region contribute to our Ford Europe business unit results. Fords share of the Turkish market increased by 1.5 percentage points to 17.0% the fourth year in a row that the Ford brand has led the market in sales in Turkey. We also are experiencing strong sales in Russia, where sales of Ford brand vehicles increased approximately 54% to 60,500 units in 2005. Motor Vehicle Distribution in Europe. On October 1, 2002, the Commission of the European Union ("Commission") adopted a new regulation that changed the way motor vehicles are sold and repaired throughout the European Community (the "Block Exemption Regulation"). Under the Block Exemption Regulation, manufacturers had the choice to either operate an "exclusive" distribution system with exclusive dealer sales territories, but with the possibility of sales to any reseller (e.g., supermarket chains, internet agencies and other resellers not authorized by the manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end customers both within and outside of the dealers exclusive sales territory, or a "selective" distribution system. We, as well as the vast majority of the other automotive manufacturers, have elected to establish a "selective" distribution system, allowing us to restrict the dealers ability to sell our vehicles to unauthorized resellers. In addition, under the "selective" distribution system, we are entitled to determine the number of our dealers but, since October 2005, not their location. Under either system, the new rules make it easier for a dealer to display and sell multiple brands in one store without the need to maintain separate facilities. 7 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Within this new regulation, the Commission also has adopted sweeping changes to the repair industry. Dealers can no longer be required by the manufacturer to perform repair work themselves. Instead, dealers may subcontract the work to independent repair shops that meet reasonable criteria set by the manufacturer. These authorized repair facilities may perform warranty and recall work, in addition to other repair and maintenance work. While a manufacturer may continue to require the use of its parts in warranty and recall work, the repair facility may use parts made by others that are of comparable quality for all other repair work. We have negotiated and implemented new Dealer, Authorized Repairer and Spare Part Supply contracts on a country by country level and, therefore, the Block Exemption Regulation now applies with respect to all of our dealers. With these new rules, the Commission intends to increase competition and narrow car price differences from country to country. While it remains difficult to quantify the full impact of these changes on our European operations, the Block Exemption Regulation continued to contribute to an increasingly competitive market for vehicles and parts. This has contributed to an increase in marketing expenses, thus negatively affecting the profitability of our Ford Europe and PAG segment. We anticipate that this trend may continue as dealers and parts suppliers become increasingly organized and established. Other Markets Canada and Mexico. Canada and Mexico also are important markets for us. In Canada, industry sales of new cars and trucks in 2005 were approximately 1.63 million units, up 3.5% from 2004 levels. In 2005, industry sales of new cars and trucks in Mexico were approximately 1.16 million units, up 3.8% from 2004. Our combined car and truck market share (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 13.9% in Canada (down 0.6 percentage points from the previous year), and 17.2% in Mexico (up 0.7 percentage points from the previous year). South America. Brazil and Argentina are our principal markets in South America. The economic environment in these countries has been volatile in recent years, particularly in 2002 and 2003, leading to large variations in industry sales. The 2004 and 2005 results have been favorably influenced by continued improvements in economic conditions, political stability and government actions to reduce inflation and public deficits. Industry sales in 2005 were approximately 1.7 million units in Brazil, up about 8.6% from 2004, and approximately 377,000 units in Argentina, up about 32.6% from 2004. Our combined car and truck share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 12.5% in Brazil (up 0.6 percentage points from the previous year) and 15.5% in Argentina (down 2.7 percentage points from the previous year). Asia Pacific. Australia, Taiwan, Thailand, South Africa and Japan are our principal markets in this region. Details of preliminary 2005 and actual 2004 industry volumes and our combined car and truck market share for these countries (including all of our brands sold in a particular country) are shown in the table below: Industry Volumes (in thousands) Corporate Market Share 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Australia 988 955 33 3 % 13.8 % 14.9 % (1.1) pts. South Africa 565 450 115 26 % 11.0 % 10.5 % 0.5 pts. Taiwan 514 484 30 6 % 11.2 % 11.0 % 0.2 pts. Thailand 700 626 74 12 % 3.5 % 4.2 % (0.7) pts. Japan 5,852 5,853 (1 ) 0 % * * * * Our combined car and truck market share in Japan has been less than 1% in recent years. We have an ownership interest in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda") of approximately 33.4%, and account for Mazda on an equity basis. Mazdas market share in the Asia Pacific region was 3.4% in 2005. Our principal competition in the Asia Pacific region has been the Japanese manufacturers. We anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region. We began operations in India in 1999, launching an all new small car (the Ikon) designed specifically for that market. In 2003, we launched the Endeavor, Fords first SUV in India, and we also launched the Fusion in late 2004 and the Fiesta in late 2005. Our operations in India also sell components to other Ford affiliates. 8 ITEM 1. Business (continued) We also are in the process of increasing our presence in China. Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("Changan Ford") is our 50/50 joint venture operation with Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. The Changan Ford assembly plant, located in Chongqing, became operational and began producing the Fiesta model in January 2003, and the Mondeo model later that year. The Focus model was launched in 2005. We also announced in 2003 that more than $1 billion would be invested over the next several years to expand manufacturing capacity, introduce new products and expand distribution channels in the Chinese automotive market. This investment will initially support the addition of new products and expansion of production capacity at Changan Ford in Chongqing from 50,000 units per year to about 200,000 units per year. It will also support the establishment of a second assembly plant and a new engine plant to be located in Nanjing. We began construction of these new facilities in 2005, with expected completion in 2007. Initial capacity at the new assembly facility is expected to be about 160,000 units annually. In addition, we have a 30% interest in Jiangling Motors Corporation Ltd., which has operations in Nanchang and assembles vehicles for distribution in China. We also import Jaguar, Volvo, Land Rover, and select Ford vehicles into China. We continue to operate a purchasing office in China to take advantage of sourcing opportunities for global markets from that country. For additional discussion of our joint ventures in China, see "Item 2. Properties." FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR Ford Motor Credit Company Ford Motor Credit Company ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. The predominant share of Ford Credits business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. Ford Credits primary financial products fall into the following three categories: Retail financing. Purchasing retail installment sales contracts and retail lease contracts from dealers, and offering financing to commercial customers, primarily vehicle leasing companies and fleet purchasers, to purchase or lease vehicle fleets; Wholesale financing. Making loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing; and Other financing. Making loans to dealers for working capital, improvements to dealership facilities, and the acquisition and refinancing of dealership real estate. Ford Credit also services the finance receivables and leases that it originates and purchases, makes loans to our affiliates, purchases certain receivables from us and our subsidiaries, and provides insurance services related to its financing programs. Ford Credits revenues are earned primarily from payments made under retail installment sale contracts and retail leases (including interest supplements and other support payments it receives from us on special rate retail financing programs), from investment and other income related to sold receivables, and from payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. Ford Credit does business in all 50 states of the United States through about 81 dealer automotive financing branches and seven regional service centers, and does business in all provinces in Canada through seven dealer automotive financing branches and two regional service centers. Outside of the United States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credits largest operation. FCEs primary business is to support the sale of our vehicles in Europe through our dealer network. FCE offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it operates; FCE does business in the United Kingdom, Germany and most other European countries. Ford Credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates in the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions. In addition, FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. Ford Credits share of retail financing for new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford brand vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as Ford Credits share of wholesale financing for new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and of new Ford brand vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe, were as follows during the last three years: 9 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 United States Financing share Ford, Lincoln and Mercury Retail installment and lease 37 % 45 % 39 % Wholesale 81 84 85 Europe Financing share Ford Retail installment and lease 28 % 29 % 31 % Wholesale 96 97 97 For a detailed discussion of Ford Credits receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss to receivables ratios, funding sources and funding strategies, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." For a discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." We sponsor special rate financing programs available only through Ford Credit. Under these programs, we make interest supplement or other support payments to Ford Credit. These programs increase Ford Credits financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information about these support payments. Under a profit maintenance agreement with Ford Credit, we have agreed to make payments to maintain Ford Credits earnings at certain levels. In addition, under a support agreement with FCE, Ford Credit has agreed to maintain FCEs net worth above a minimum level. No payments were made under either of these agreements during the 2003 through 2005 periods. GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS A number of governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, damageability, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. In addition, manufacturing and assembly facilities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. Such facilities also may be subject to comprehensive national, regional, and or local permit programs with respect to such matters. Mobile Source Emissions Control U.S. Requirements. The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States. In 1999, the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") promulgated post 2004 model year standards that were more stringent than the default standards contained in the Clean Air Act. These regulations require light duty trucks and certain heavy duty passenger carrying trucks to meet the same emissions standards as passenger cars by the 2007 model year, and extend emissions durability requirements to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). The stringency of these standards presents compliance challenges and is likely to hinder efforts to employ light duty diesel technology, which could negatively impact our ability to meet Corporate Average Fuel Economy ("CAFE") standards. The EPA also promulgated post 2004 emissions standards for "heavy duty" trucks (8,500 14,000 lbs. gross vehicle weight), which are also likely to pose technological challenges. As discussed in "Stationary Source Emissions Control" below, the EPA continues to revise the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter and ozone, and to redesignate areas of the country from "attainment" to "non attainment" status. These changes will further increase pressure to reduce vehicle emissions of particulate matter, volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxide. Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California has received a waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique emissions control standards. New vehicles and engines sold in California must be certified by the California Air Resources Board ("CARB"). CARB has adopted stringent vehicle emissions standards that began phasing in with the 2004 model year. These new standards treat most light duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet new stringent emissions requirements. As with the EPAs post 2004 standards, CARBs vehicle standards present a difficult engineering challenge, and will essentially rule out the use of light duty diesel technology. In 2004, CARB voted to adopt standards limiting emissions of "greenhouse" gases (e.g., carbon dioxide) from new motor vehicles. Although CARB claims that its vehicle emissions regulations provide authority for it to 10 ITEM 1. Business (continued) adopt such regulations, the EPA has determined that greenhouse gases are not subject to regulation under the federal Clean Air Act. Since greenhouse gas standards are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards, this issue is discussed more fully in the "Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy" section below. Since 1990, the California program has included requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero emission vehicles ("ZEVs"), which produce no emission of regulated pollutants (typically battery powered vehicles, which have had narrow consumer appeal due to their limited range, reduced functionality, and high cost). This ZEV mandate initially required that a specified percentage of each manufacturers vehicles produced for sale in California be ZEVs, beginning at 2% in 1998 and increasing to 10% in 2003. In 1996, CARB eliminated the ZEV mandate for the 1998 2002 model years, but retained the 10% mandate in a modified form beginning with the 2003 model year. In April 2003, CARB adopted amendments to the ZEV mandate that shifted the near term focus of the regulation away from battery electric vehicles to advanced technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions. The rules also give some credit for so called "partial zero emission vehicles" ("PZEVs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. In addition, the rules call on the auto industry to ramp up production of zero emission fuel cell vehicles over the longer term. In the aggregate, the industry must produce 250 zero emission fuel cell vehicles by the 2008 model year, and 2,500 more in the 2009 2011 model year period. A panel of independent experts will review the feasibility of these requirements in 2006. While the changes appear to reflect a recognition that battery electric vehicles simply do not have the potential to achieve widespread consumer acceptance, there are substantial questions about the feasibility of producing the required number of zero emission fuel cell vehicles due to the substantial engineering challenges and high costs associated with this technology. It is doubtful whether the market will support the number of required ZEVs, even taking into account the recent modifications of the ZEV mandate. Fuel cell technology in the future may enable production of ZEVs with widespread consumer appeal. However, due to the engineering challenges, the high cost of the technology, infrastructure needs, and other issues, it does not appear that mass production of fuel cell vehicles will be commercially feasible for years to come. Compliance with the ZEV mandate may eventually require costly actions that would have a substantial adverse effect on Fords sales volume and profits. For example, Ford could be required to curtail the sale of non ZEVs and or offer to sell ZEVs, advanced technology vehicles, and PZEVs well below cost. The Clean Air Act permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt Californias motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. In addition to California, nine states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the California standards (including Californias greenhouse gas provisions). Eight of these states also adopted the ZEV requirements. These nine states, together with California, account for approximately 25% of Fords current light duty vehicle sales volume in the United States. More states are considering adopting the California standards. Unfortunately, there are problems inherent in transferring California standards to other states, including the following: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV mandate requirements on a state by state basis presents a major challenge to automobile company distribution systems; 2) the driving range of many ZEVs is greatly diminished in cold weather, thereby limiting their market appeal; and 3) the states adopting the California program have refused thus far to adopt the California reformulated gasoline regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles to meet Californias in use standards. Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA and CARB may require manufacturers to recall and repair non conforming vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the manufacturer, the EPA or CARB), or we may voluntarily stop shipment of or recall non conforming vehicles. The costs of related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop shipment order, could be substantial. Both CARB and the EPA also have adopted on board diagnostic ("OBD") regulations, which require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle operator (via the "check engine" light) of any malfunction. These regulations have become extremely complicated, and creation of a compliant system requires substantial engineering resources. In 2005, CARB adopted even more stringent OBD requirements for heavy duty vehicles, and has initiated rulemaking to further regulate light duty vehicle OBD systems. Many states have implemented OBD tests as part of their inspection and maintenance program. Failure of in service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. European Requirements. European Union ("EU") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU. In 1998, the EU adopted a new directive on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial trucks. More stringent emissions standards applied to new car certifications beginning January 1, 2000 and to new car registrations beginning January 1, 2001 ("Stage III Standards"). A second level of even more stringent emissions standards were applied to new car certifications beginning January 1, 2005 and to new car registrations beginning 11 ITEM 1. Business (continued) January 1, 2006 ("Stage IV Standards"). The comparable light commercial truck Stage III Standards and Stage IV Standards come into effect one year later than the passenger car requirements. This directive on emissions also introduced OBD requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions related defects that occur in the first five years or 80,000 kilometers of vehicle life (extended to 100,000 kilometers in 2005). Failure of in service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. The Stage IV Standards for diesel engines have proven technologically difficult and precluded manufacturers from offering some products in time to be eligible for government incentive programs. The EU commenced a program in 2004 to determine the specifics for further changes to vehicle emissions standards, and in 2005 the European Commission published a proposed law for Stage V emissions. Specific mandated targets/limits are yet to be determined. It is anticipated that the law will not be finalized before the end of 2006. Other National Requirements. Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ("UNECE") mobile source emissions regulations. Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China has adopted the most recent European standards to be implemented in the 2008 2010 timeframe. Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S. based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European based standards for diesel vehicles. Because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in these markets. Furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. This could lead to problems, particularly if OBD or in use surveillance are implemented. Japan has unique standards and test procedures, and is considering more stringent standards for implementation in 2009. This may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market. Stationary Source Emissions Control In the United States, the federal Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to identify "hazardous air pollutants" from various industries and promulgate rules restricting their emission. The EPA has issued final rules for a variety of industrial categories, several of which would further regulate emissions from our U.S. operations, including engine testing, automobile surface coating and iron casting. These technology based standards require certain of our facilities to significantly reduce their air emissions. Additional programs under the Clean Air Act, including Compliance Assurance Monitoring and periodic monitoring could require our facilities to install additional emission monitoring equipment. The cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. The Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to periodically review and update its National Ambient Air Quality Standards, and to designate whether counties or other local areas are in compliance with the new standards. If an area or county does not meet the new standards ("non attainment areas"), the state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment. The EPA recently established new designations that reclassify many of the areas where Fords manufacturing facilities are located as non attainment areas. It is likely that the affected states will revise their implementation plans to require additional emission control equipment and impose more stringent permit requirements on these facilities. The cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. Motor Vehicle Safety U.S. Requirements. The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the United States in two primary ways. First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA"). Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. A manufacturer also is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. Should Ford or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of Fords vehicles, the costs of such recall campaigns could be substantial. There were pending before NHTSA eight investigations relating to alleged safety defects or potential compliance issues in Ford vehicles as of January 17, 2006. The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users ("SAFETEA LU") was also signed into law in 2005. SAFETEA LU establishes a number of substantive, safety related rulemaking mandates for NHTSA that can be expected to result in new regulations and product content requirements. The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act (the "TREAD Act") was signed into law in November 2000. The TREAD Act required NHTSA to establish several new regulations, including reporting requirements for motor 12 ITEM 1. Business (continued) vehicle manufacturers on foreign recalls and certain information received by the manufacturer that may assist the agency in the early identification of safety defects. As part of its rulemaking efforts, NHTSA defined certain types of material provided by manufacturers as competitively sensitive and entitled to a presumption of confidentiality, including warranty claim information, field reports, and consumer complaint information. Public Citizen, an advocacy organization, has filed a lawsuit challenging NHTSAs confidentiality determinations, which may be resolved in the 2006 calendar year. If Public Citizen prevails, Ford and other manufacturers may lose the ability to protect warranty and consumer information after it is submitted to NHTSA pursuant to the TREAD Act. Foreign Requirements. Canada, the EU, individual member countries within the EU, and other countries in Europe, South America and the Asia Pacific markets also have safety standards applicable to motor vehicles and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent standards in the future. In addition, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association ("EAMA") (also known in Europe as the "ACEA"), of which Ford is a member, made a voluntary commitment in June 2001 to introduce a range of safety measures to improve pedestrian protection with the first phase starting in 2005 and a second phase starting in 2010. Similar commitments were subsequently made by the Japanese and Korean automobile manufacturers associations. As a result, over 99% of cars and small vans sold in Europe are covered by industry safety commitments. The European Council of Ministers and the European Parliament published a directive in December 2003 and a decision in February 2004, which together set forth detailed technical provisions for enforcement of the industry commitments (i.e., the application dates, the types of tests to be conducted, the test procedures to be used and the limit values to be achieved). Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy U.S. Requirements. Under federal law, vehicles must meet minimum corporate average fuel economy standards set by NHTSA. A manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years. Federal law established a passenger car CAFE standard of 27.5 miles per gallon for 1985 and later model years, which NHTSA believes it has the authority to amend to a level it determines to be the maximum feasible level. By rule, NHTSA has set light truck CAFE standards of 21.6 miles per gallon for model year 2006, and of 22.2 miles per gallon for model year 2007. In August 2005, NHTSA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding light truck fuel economy standards for the 2008 2011 model years. The proposed rules set forth a new structure for light truck fuel economy standards. Under the proposal, each manufacturer would be required, by the 2011 model year, to apply a series of size based category targets to its particular mix of light trucks in order to calculate the light truck fuel economy standards applicable to that manufacturer. In model years 2008 2010, manufacturers would have the option of complying with traditional light truck standards set by NHTSA, or opting into the new structure. The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Ford, and other automotive companies have submitted extensive comments on the proposed rules. In general, Ford favors the new structure proposed by NHTSA, but until the final rule is established the effect of NHTSAs proposal on Fords ability to comply with light truck CAFE requirements remains unclear. NHTSA is expected to issue a final rule in April 2006. There are indications that NHTSA may begin work on a new rule to raise car CAFE standards once the light truck rule is finalized. In addition, a number of CAFE related bills have been introduced in Congress, where there is always the possibility that new legislation could vitiate the existing regulatory process and establish new fuel economy standards by statute. Pressure to increase CAFE standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the global climate. In 1999, a petition was filed with the EPA requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. This would have the effect of imposing more stringent fuel economy standards, since the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the amount of fuel consumed. The petitioners later filed suit in an effort to compel a formal response from the EPA. In August 2003, the EPA denied the petition on the grounds that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, and only NHTSA is authorized to regulate fuel economy under the CAFE law. A number of states, cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the EPAs decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. A coalition of states and industry trade groups, including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (an industry trade group made up of nine leading automotive manufacturers including BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, General Motors and Toyota (the "Alliance")) intervened in support of the EPAs decision. In July 2005, the Court held that the EPA had exercised reasonable discretion in determining not to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant. The petitioners are seeking review of this holding by the United States Supreme Court. In September 2004, CARB adopted California greenhouse gas emissions regulations applicable to 2009 2016 model year cars and trucks, effectively imposing more stringent fuel economy standards than those set by NHTSA. These regulations impose standards that are equivalent to a CAFE standard of more than 43 miles per gallon for passenger cars and small trucks, and approximately 13 ITEM 1. Business (continued) 27 miles per gallon for large light trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles by model year 2016. The Alliance and individual companies (including Ford) submitted comments opposing the rules and addressing errors in CARBs underlying economic and technical analyses. In December 2004, the Alliance filed suit in federal district court in Fresno, California. The suit challenges the regulation on several bases, including that it is preempted by the federal CAFE law. That litigation is now in the discovery phase, and trial is expected in 2007. A host of other states have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, CARBs greenhouse gas standards. These states include New York, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Oregon, and Washington. Several other states are known to be considering the adoption of such rules. As of this writing, the Alliance has filed litigation in the state courts of New York and Oregon alleging procedural errors associated with these states adoption of greenhouse gas rules. The Alliance has also filed suit in federal court challenging Vermonts adoption of these rules. Additional cases are likely to be filed in 2006. Fords ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and or are feature laden, while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family size, luxury, and high performance cars and full size light trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and or increase market support programs for our most fuel efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. European Requirements. The EU is a party to the Kyoto Protocol and has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below their 1990 levels during the 2008 2012 period. In December 1997, the European Council of Environment Ministers reaffirmed its goal to reduce average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars to 120 grams per kilometer by 2010 (at the latest) and invited European motor vehicle manufacturers to negotiate further with the European Commission on a satisfactory voluntary environmental agreement to help achieve this goal. In October 1998, the EU agreed to support an environmental agreement with ACEA (of which Ford is a member) on carbon dioxide emission reductions from new passenger cars (the "ACEA Agreement"). The ACEA Agreement establishes an emissions target of 140 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer for the average of new cars sold in the EU by the ACEAs members in 2008. Average carbon dioxide emissions of 140 grams per kilometer for new passenger cars corresponds to a 25% reduction in average carbon dioxide emissions compared to 1995. To date, the industry has made good progress, and has met the interim target for 2003 (165 170 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer); however, achieving the 140 grams per kilometer target remains ambitious both technologically and economically. In 2005, ACEA and the European Commission reviewed the potential for additional carbon dioxide reductions, with the goal of achieving the EUs objective of 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer by 2010. The discussions are advancing the concept of an integrated approach to further reductions involving the oil industry and other sectors. Other European countries are considering other initiatives for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal measures. For example, the U.K. introduced a vehicle excise duty and company car taxation based on carbon dioxide emissions in 2001, and other member states such as France and Portugal have announced their intention to adopt carbon dioxide based taxes for passenger cars. Other National Requirements. Some Asian countries (such as China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan) have also adopted fuel efficiency targets. For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2010 passenger car and commercial trucks with incentives for early adoption. China has adopted targets for 2005 and 2008, and is expected to continue setting new targets to address energy security issues. Following considerable discussion, the Canadian automobile industry signed a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") dated April 5, 2005 with the Canadian government in which the industry voluntarily committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the Canadian vehicle fleet by 5.3 megatons ("Mt") by 2010 (which slightly exceeds the governments 5.2 Mt target under its Kyoto Protocol Climate Change Action Plan). The MOU contains the following interim targets for the entire Canadian automobile industry: 2.4 Mt reduction by 2007, total reduction of 3.0 Mt in 2008, total reduction of 3.9 Mt in 2009 and the full 5.3 Mt reduction in 2010. Pursuant to the MOU, a committee of industry and government representatives has been established to monitor the industrys overall compliance with the annual MOU targets. 14 ITEM 1. Business (continued) European Chemicals Policy The European Commission adopted a draft regulation in October 2003 for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of certain chemicals ("REACH"). Final adoption of the regulation is anticipated in the 2006 2007 timeframe, followed by a pre registration phase of eighteen months. Implementation of the legislation is likely to be administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research and development ("R&D") resources may be redirected from "market driven" to "REACH driven" R&D. The regulation also may accelerate the ban or restriction on use of certain chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts. Pollution Control Costs During the period 2006 through 2010, we expect to spend approximately $346 million on our North American and European facilities to comply with air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards which are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. Of this total, we estimate spending approximately $69 million in 2006 and $71 million in 2007. Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. EMPLOYMENT DATA The approximate number of individuals employed by us and our consolidated entities (including entities we do not control) at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in thousands): 2005 2004* Business Unit Automotive The Americas Ford North America 140 126 Ford South America 13 12 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 66 69 PAG 49 51 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 18 18 Financial Services Ford Motor Credit Company 14 18 The Hertz Corporation 31 Total 300 325 * Employment figures for 2004 have been adjusted to conform to 2005 business unit presentation. As shown in the employment data above, from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005, the number of people we employed decreased approximately eight percent. This decrease primarily reflects the sale of Hertz, partially offset by the formation of Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH") which employs approximately 17,700 Ford hourly workers who were previously assigned to Visteon Corporation ("Visteon") and approximately 2,500 former Visteon employees. Not included in these employment data are approximately 5,000 Visteon salaried workers leased to ACH. See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview" and Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion relating to the Visteon transaction and ACH. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive segment are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Automobile Workers"). Approximately 2% of our U.S. salaried employees are represented by unions. Most hourly employees and many non management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United States also are represented by unions. 15 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Our average labor cost per hour worked for hourly employees of Ford in the United States, excluding subsidiaries, was as follows for the listed years: 2005 2004 Earnings $ 31.64 $ 30.93 Benefits 33.26 32.00 Total $ 64.90 $ 62.93 We have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the UAW, and the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada ("CAW" or "Canadian Automobile Workers"). Among other things, our agreements with the UAW and CAW provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the term of the respective agreements, and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. Our agreement with the UAW expires on September 14, 2007, and our agreement with the CAW expires on September 16, 2008. Historically, negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements with the UAW and CAW have typically resulted in increases in wages and benefits, including retirement benefits; some of these increases typically have been provided to salaried employees as well. In 2005, we negotiated new Ford collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. We also negotiated new collective bargaining agreements to cover employees at our Aston Martin (Britain), Land Rover (Britain) and Volvo (Belgium and Sweden) affiliates. In 2006, we are or will be negotiating new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Britain, France, Germany, Mexico, Russia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. We will also negotiate new collective bargaining agreements at our Jaguar (Britain) and Volvo (Sweden) affiliates. In recent years, we have not had significant work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers. A work stoppage could occur as a result of disputes under our collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, which, if protracted, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Work stoppages at supplier facilities for labor or other reasons could have similar consequences if alternate sources of components are not readily available. ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. We also have staffs of scientists who engage in basic research. We maintain extensive engineering, research and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in Dearborn, Michigan; Dunton, Gaydon and Whitley, England; Gothenburg, Sweden; and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany. Most of our engineering research and development relates to our Automotive sector. In general, our engineering activities that do not involve basic research or product development, such as manufacturing engineering, are excluded from our engineering, research and development charges discussed below. During the last three years, we recorded charges to our consolidated income for engineering, research and development we sponsored in the following amounts: $8.0 billion (2005), $7.4 billion (2004), and $7.3 billion (2003). Any customer sponsored research and development activities that we conduct are not material. 16 ITEM 1. Business (continued) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: Continued decline in market share. Our market share in the United States has declined in each of the past five years, from 22.8% in 2001 to 18.2% in 2005. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, these volume reductions have had an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our plant utilization rate in North America is approximately 75%, which is not sustainable. While we are attempting to stabilize our market share and reduce our capacity over time through the steps described in the Way Forward plan, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. Continued declines in our market share could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors. The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. For example, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of approximately 15 million units in 2005. Industry overcapacity has resulted in many of our principal competitors offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain market share. These marketing incentives have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates and other incentives. As a result, we have not necessarily been able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases (e.g., for commodities or health care) or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the U.S. or European markets. While we and General Motors have each announced plans to significantly reduce capacity, these reductions will take several years to complete and will only partially address the industrys overcapacity problems. A continuation or increase in these trends could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States. Trucks and sport utility vehicles have represented some of the most profitable vehicle segments in the United States. During the past year, there has been a general shift in consumer preferences away from medium and large sized sport utility vehicles, which has adversely affected our profitability. A continuation or acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences away from sport utility vehicles, or a similar shift in consumer preferences away from truck sales or other more profitable vehicle sales, whether because of higher fuel prices or otherwise, could have an increasingly adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors. The worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over which automobile manufacturers have little control. This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle. The decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo political events, and other factors. Consumer demand may vary substantially from year to year, and, in any given year, consumer demand may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel. Moreover, like other manufacturers, we have a high proportion of costs that are fixed, so that relatively small changes in unit sales volumes may dramatically affect overall profitability. In recent years, industry demand has remained at high levels. Should industry demand soften because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected. For additional discussion of economic trends, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. Offering highly desirable vehicles can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand. Conversely, offering vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value or otherwise) can exacerbate these risks. For example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicles perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share and profitability. Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel. A continuation of or further increase in high prices for fuel or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the United States, could result in weaker demand for relatively more profitable large and luxury car and truck models and increased demand for relatively less profitable small cars and trucks. An acceleration 17 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) of such a trend, as demonstrated in the short term with the recent spike in fuel prices following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the U.S. Gulf Coast region, could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Currency or commodity price fluctuations. As a resource intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our results. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of currency or commodity price risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor. We and certain of our major competitors have substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee benefits) that put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to other competitors. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor with substantial "legacy" costs could result in that competitor gaining a significant cost advantage (by eliminating or reducing contractual obligations to unions and other parties through bankruptcy proceedings). In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major U.S. auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials. Automobile manufacturers continue to experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. These factors have also increased pressure on the industrys supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. We have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. Most significantly, in 2005 we reacquired from Visteon twenty three North American facilities in order to protect our supply of components. In connection with this transaction, we forgave $1.1 billion of Visteons liability to us for employee related costs, and incurred a pre tax loss of $468 million. Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies. A work stoppage could occur at Ford or supplier facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under an existing collective bargaining agreement could arise, for example, as a result of efforts to implement restructuring actions, such as those that are part of the Way Forward plan discussed under "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." A work stoppage for this or other reasons at Ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason (e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Single source supply of components or materials. Some components used in our vehicles (e.g., certain engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component. Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our agreement with the United Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2007) and our agreement with the Canadian Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2008) provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. These agreements may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency related improvements. Accordingly, these agreements may impede our ability to successfully implement and complete the Way Forward plan. For discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 18 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). We sponsor plans to provide postretirement pension, health care and life insurance benefits for our retired employees. The measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with these benefits requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). To the extent that actual results are less favorable than our assumptions there could be a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of these assumptions, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs. Meeting or exceeding many government mandated safety standards is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. Government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions. The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. In the United States and Europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. Many governments regulate local product content and or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. The cost of complying with these requirements may be substantial. Our ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and or are feature laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family size, luxury, and high performance cars and full size light trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and or increase market support programs for our most fuel efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. See "Item 1. Governmental Standards" for additional discussion. Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other standards. However, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. For example, the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law. Furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"). We have entered into a number of long term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. If our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take or pay contract. We also have entered into a small number of long term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. If our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a suppliers output of materials were to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need. Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. Recent lowering of credit ratings for Ford and Ford Credit has increased borrowing costs and caused Ford Credits access to the unsecured debt markets to become more restricted. In response, Ford Credit has increased its 19 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect Ford Credits ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. For additional discussion, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Higher than expected credit losses. Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customers or dealers failure to make payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credits business. The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations. For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Some of Ford Credits bank competitors in the United States have developed credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit is facing increased competition from banks on wholesale financing for Ford dealers. Competition from such competitors may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credits profitability and the volume of its business. Changes in interest rates. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credits interest rate risk exposure results principally from "re pricing risk, or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and or satisfy its customers. Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credits profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth in Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credits subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We believe that our ability to implement the Way Forward plan is very important to our future success. Any of the above or other factors that prevent us from executing the Way Forward plan ultimately could have a substantially adverse impact on our business. For additional discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments to report. ITEM 2. Properties Our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices and engineering centers. We own substantially all of our U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities. These facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, and transmission plants. Most of our distribution centers are leased (approximately 38% of our total square footage is owned). A substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third party providers under service contracts. Because the facilities provided pursuant to third party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. All of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. Substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. Approximately 92% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. In addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside the United States. We own substantially all of our non U.S. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. The majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the United States are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. As in the United States, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. The total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments are shown in the table below: Segment Plants Distribution Centers/Warehouses Engineering, Research/Development Sales Offices The Americas 61 33 41 38 Ford Europe and PAG 38 11 9 27 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 14 3 2 5 Total 113 47 52 70 Included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our Automotive sector. Following are the most significant of these consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants they own: AutoAlliance International ("AAI") a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda (of which we own approximately 33.4%), which operates as its principal business an automobile vehicle assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan. AAI currently produces the Mazda6 and Ford Mustang models. Ford supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to AAI, and AAI reimburses Ford for the full cost of that labor. Ford Otosan a joint venture in Turkey between Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey (41% partner) and public investors (18%) that is our single source supplier of the Ford Transit Connect vehicle and our sole distributor of Ford vehicles in Turkey. In addition, Ford Otosan makes the Ford Transit series and the Cargo truck for the Turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. This joint venture owns and operates two plants and a parts distribution depot in Turkey. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH and Co. KG, a German company, to which we transferred our European manual transmission operations in Halewood, England; Cologne, Germany; and Bordeaux, France. In 2004, Volvo Car Corporation ("Volvo Cars") agreed to transfer its manual transmission operations from its Kping, Sweden plant to this joint venture. The Getrag joint venture produces manual transmissions for our operations in Europe (Ford Europe and PAG). Ford currently supplies most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this Getrag joint venture. Ford employees who worked at the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture by Ford. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to the joint venture may return to Ford. Employees hired in the future to work in 21 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) these operations will be employed directly by the joint venture. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH reimburses Ford for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor supplied by Ford. This joint venture operates three plants. Getrag All Wheel Drive AB a joint venture in Sweden between Getrag Dana Holding GmbH ("Getrag/Dana") (60% partner) and Volvo Cars (40% partner). In January 2004, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Getrag/Dana to transfer Volvo Cars plant in Kping, Sweden to this joint venture. The joint venture produces all wheel drive components and, for a time, chassis components as well. As noted above, the manual transmission operations at the Kping plant were transferred to Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH. The hourly and salaried employees at the plant have become employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR Cologne GmbH ("TEKFOR") a 50/50 joint venture of Ford Werke GmbH ("Ford Werke") together with Neumayer Tekfor GmbH, a German company, to which Ford Werke transferred the operations of the Ford forge in Cologne. The joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and chassis, for use in Ford vehicles and for sale to third parties. Those Ford employees who worked at the Cologne Forge Plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture are assigned to TEKFOR by Ford and remain Ford employees. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to TEKFOR may return to Ford. New workers at the joint venture will be hired as employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR reimburses Ford for the full cost of Ford employees assigned to the joint venture. This joint venture operates one plant. Pininfarina Sverige, AB a joint venture between Volvo Cars (40% partner) and Pininfarina, S.p.A. ("Pininfarina") (60% partner). In September 2003, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Pininfarina to establish this joint venture for the engineering and manufacture of niche vehicles, starting with a new, small convertible. Volvo Cars has outsourced the design and engineering to Pininfarina. The joint venture began production of the new car at the Uddevalla Plant in Sweden, which was transferred from Volvo Cars to the joint venture in December 2005, and is the joint ventures only plant. Ford Vietnam Limited a joint venture between Ford (75% partner) and Song Cong Diesel (25% partner). Ford Vietnam assembles and distributes several Ford vehicles in Vietnam, including Escape, Everest, Focus, Mondeo, Ranger and Transit. This joint venture operates one plant. Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd. ("FLH") a joint venture in Taiwan among Ford (70% partner), the Lio Ho Group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of Ford and Mazda vehicles sourced from Ford as well as Mazda and Suzuki. In addition to domestic assembly, FLH also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports Ford brand built up vehicles from Europe and the United States. This joint venture operates one plant. In addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our Automotive sector are operated by other, unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. These additional plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. The most significant of these joint ventures are: AutoAlliance (Thailand) ("AAT") a joint venture among Ford (50%), Mazda (45%) and a Thai affiliate of Mazdas (5%), which owns and operates a manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand. AAT produces the Ford Everest, Ford Ranger and Mazda B Series pickup trucks for the Thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide (other than North America), in both built up and kit form. Blue Diamond Truck, S de RL de CV a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and International Truck and Engine Corporation (51% partner), a subsidiary of Navistar International Corporation ("Navistar"). Blue Diamond Truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford and Navistar for their own independent distribution. Blue Diamond Truck manufactures Ford F 650/750 medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in 22 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) the United States and Canada, and Navistar medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in Mexico. Production of a low cab forward, light /medium duty commercial truck for each of Ford and Navistar began in May 2005. Tenedora Nemak, S.A. de C.V. a joint venture between Ford (15% partner) and a subsidiary of Mexican conglomerate Alfa S.A. de C.V. (85% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, our former Canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. Ford supplies a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the Canadian plants, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("Changan Ford") a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Changan"). Through its facility in the Chinese city of Chongqing, Changan Ford produces and distributes in China the Ford Fiesta, Mondeo and Focus, and is planning to launch Mazda3 vehicles in 2006. In 2005, Changan Ford received approval from the Chinese government for the establishment of a new vehicle manufacturing plant in the Chinese city of Nanjing, which is now under construction. Changan Ford has also filed an application with the Chinese government to reorganize its current equity structure as follows: Changan 50%, Ford 35% and Mazda 15%. Upon completion of such equity reorganization, Changan Ford would change its corporate name to Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd. Changan Ford Mazda Engine Company, Ltd. ("CFME") a joint venture between Ford (25% partner), Mazda (25% partner) and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd (50% partner). CFME is located in the City of Nanjing, and will produce the Ford New I4 and Mazda BZ engines in support of the assembly of Ford and Mazda branded \ vehicles manufactured in China. Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. ("JMC") a publicly traded company in China with Ford (30% shareholder) and Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. and Jiangling Motors Company Group. The public investors of JMC own 29% of its outstanding shares. JMC assembles the Ford Transit van and other non Ford technology based vehicles for distribution in China. Ford Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and Tractors Malaysia, a publicly traded subsidiary of Sime Darby (51% partner). Ford Malaysia distributes Ford vehicles assembled by its wholly owned subsidiary Associated Motor Industries Malaysia, Sdn. Bhd., an assembly company, including Econovan, Escape, Everest, Laser and Ranger. The furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our Financial Services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. The facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings OVERVIEW Various legal actions, governmental investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted in the future against us and our subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental regulations covering safety, emissions and fuel economy; financial services; employment related matters; dealer, supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; shareholder and investor matters; and financial reporting matters. Some of the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very large expenditures. We regularly evaluate the expected outcome of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. We have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical litigation payouts and trends. We have also accrued expenses for other litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. These accruals are reflected in our financial statements. Following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: 23 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) PRODUCT LIABILITY MATTERS Asbestos Matters. Asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive components dating from the early 1900s. Along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with certain Ford parts and other products containing asbestos. Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. The majority of these cases have been filed in state courts. Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. In most of the asbestos litigation we are not the sole defendant. We believe we are being more aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. We are prepared to defend these asbestos related cases and, with respect to the cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long standing position that mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of asbestos related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate. The majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages, and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum. The vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. Many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and we are often unable to tell from the pleadings which of the plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). Our annual payout and related defense costs in asbestos cases had been increasing between 1999 and 2003. In 2005, these costs were about the same as in 2003 and 2004; however, they may become substantial in the future. The United States Congress continues to consider proposals to reform asbestos litigation. The leading proposal would create a trust fund from which eligible asbestos claimants would be compensated and would preclude, during the life of the trust, litigation in the United States based on exposure to asbestos. The trust fund would be funded by asbestos defendants (including us) and the insurance industry. These funds would be used to pay eligible claimants (i.e., those who satisfy specific medical criteria and can adequately demonstrate occupational exposure to asbestos) according to a specified schedule. If legislation is enacted creating such a trust fund, we would likely be required to make substantial contributions to the fund over a specified period of time, resulting in our incurring a charge in the amount of the present value of such anticipated contributions in the period in which the legislation becomes effective. We cannot predict whether or in what form the legislation will be enacted or the costs associated with such enactment. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS General. We have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. We also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. The amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be substantial. The contingent losses that we expect to incur in connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, for many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration, and success of remediation). As a result, we are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible in connection with these sites, although that total could be substantial. 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) St. Louis Assembly Plant Enforcement Action. In 2005, the Department of Justice ("DOJ") advised us that the EPA had referred to it for civil enforcement a matter regarding refrigerants used in several types of process equipment at our St. Louis Assembly Plant. The referral is based on the EPAs belief that the plant did not comply with all of the Clean Air Acts recordkeeping, testing, and repair requirements related to process equipment with regulated refrigerants. We are fully cooperating with the DOJ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Woodhaven Stamping Plant Letter of Violation. In 2005, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") issued a letter of violation to Fords Woodhaven Stamping Plant alleging that the facility had failed to properly report emissions from boilers and space heaters, and that the facility had failed to apply for a Title V permit as required by Michigan law. We are fully cooperating with the DEQ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Edison Assembly Plant Concrete Disposal. During demolition of our Edison Assembly Plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. The concrete was crushed and reused as fill material at several different off site locations. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") now asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. We are fully cooperating with the DEP to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. CLASS ACTIONS The following are actions filed against us on behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly situated (i.e., purported class actions). In light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are limited to those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the Company, would likely involve a significant cost. Explorer Class Actions. A state court in Illinois certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1991 2001 Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone ATX or Wilderness tires who have not experienced any problems with either the tires or the vehicles (Rowan v. Ford Motor Company). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that the Firestone tires are defective. Plaintiffs claim that the value of the vehicles was diminished because of the alleged defects and seek unspecified actual and compensatory damages and other relief. Trial is anticipated in late 2006 or 2007. A state court in California certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1990 2000 Ford Explorers (Gray v. Ford Motor Company and four coordinated cases). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that Ford concealed information about them. Plaintiffs seek relief similar to that sought in Rowan. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. There are also 16 purported statewide class actions pending in several states, raising allegations similar to those raised in Rowan and in Gray, and seeking similar relief. Bridgestone Firestone, Inc. ("Firestone") was a co defendant in most of these cases, but settled all claims against it in these cases. The only remaining claims in these cases are based on the Explorers alleged rollover propensity. Paint Class Actions. A state court in Madison County, Illinois certified a nationwide class of owners of 1989 96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint peeling. Plaintiffs contend that their vehicles paint is defective in that there was a substantial risk of topcoat or clearcoat delamination, and that Ford failed to disclose that risk. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages (in an amount to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and to compensate for alleged diminution in value), punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. Crown Victoria Police Interceptor Class Actions. State courts in Illinois and Louisiana certified statewide classes of state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors. The complaints allege that the vehicles are defective in that fires can occur when the vehicles are struck in the rear at high speed, and seek modifications to the fuel systems and other relief, including punitive damages. Trial in the Illinois case during 2004 (St. Clair County v Ford Motor Company) resulted in a defense verdict on all counts submitted to the jury, from which plaintiffs have appealed; three counts remain pending for decision by the trial judge. Our appeal from the class certification order in Louisiana is pending. A class certification order granted in Florida in 2004 was reversed on appeal in April 2005. 25 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) There are also 12 purported statewide class actions pending in several states which claim to represent state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors, as well as six purported class actions relating to non police Crown Victoria vehicles. These suits raise allegations similar to those raised in St. Clair County, and seek similar relief. Hydroboost Truck Brake Class Action. A state court in Oklahoma certified a nationwide class of all purchasers of 1999 2002 F 250, F 350, F 450, and F 550 Ford Super Duty Trucks and 2002 Excursions with hydroboost hydraulic braking systems. The complaint alleges that these trucks are unsafe because they suffer diminished power assist to the steering when the driver is simultaneously braking and steering. The complaint alleges breach of warranty and fraud, and seeks the cost of retrofitting the trucks to eliminate the alleged danger, compensation for diminished resale value, and other amounts. NHTSA investigated a similar issue and closed the investigation, finding that "diminished steering assist while braking is present" in these trucks, but that the "associated injury and property damage incidents are so rare that they do not present a risk to vehicle safety." Trial is scheduled for 2007. OTHER MATTERS SEC Pension and Post Employment Benefit Accounting Inquiry. On October 14, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified us that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used to account for pensions and other post employment benefits. We are one of several companies to receive a request for information as part of this inquiry. We are cooperating with the SEC in providing the information requested. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not required. 26 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford Our executive officers and their positions and ages at March 1, 2006 are as follows: Name Position Present Position Held Since Age William Clay Ford, Jr. (a) Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer October 2001 48 James J. Padilla (b) President and Chief Operating Officer February 2005 59 Lewis W. K. Booth Executive Vice President Ford Europe and Premier Automotive Group and Chairman, Ford Europe, Jaguar and Land Rover October 2005 57 Mark Fields Executive Vice President President, The Americas October 2005 45 Donat R. Leclair, Jr. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer August 2003 54 Mark A. Schulz Executive Vice President President, International Automotive Operations October 2005 53 Anne L. Stevens Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer, The Americas November 2005 57 Michael E. Bannister Group Vice President Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Motor Credit Company April 2004 56 Francisco Codina Group Vice President North America Marketing, Sales and Service March 2006 54 John Fleming Group Vice President President and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Europe October 2005 55 Derrick M. Kuzak Group Vice President Product Development, The Americas November 2005 54 Joe W. Laymon Group Vice President Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs October 2003 53 J C. Mays Group Vice President Design, and Chief Creative Officer August 2003 51 Ziad S. Ojakli Group Vice President Corporate Affairs January 2004 38 Richard Parry Jones Group Vice President Global Product Development and Chief Technical Officer August 2001 54 David T. Szczupak Group Vice President Manufacturing, The Americas November 2005 50 David G. Leitch Senior Vice President and General Counsel April 2005 45 James C. Gouin Vice President and Controller August 2003 46 (a) Also Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee, and a member of the Finance Committee and of the Environmental and Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. (b) Also a member of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 27 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford (continued) All of the above officers, except those noted below, have been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. Described below are the recent positions (other than those with Ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with Ford or its subsidiaries for five years: Mr. Ojakli served as Principal Deputy for Legislative Affairs for President George W. Bush from December 2002 to 2003, and was Deputy Assistant to the President from 2001 to 2002. Prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the Policy Director and Chief of Staff to the Senate Republican Conference Secretary. Mr. Leitch served as the Deputy Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President George W. Bush from December 2002 to March 2005. From June 2001 until December 2002, he served as Chief Counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration, overseeing a staff of 290 in Washington and the agencys 11 regional offices. Prior to June 2001, Mr. Leitch was a partner at Hogan & Hartson LLP in Washington DC, where his practice focused on appellate litigation in state and federal court. Under our By Laws, the executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors held for this purpose. Each officer is elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the By Laws. PART II ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges in the United States and on certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The table below shows the high and low sales prices for our Common Stock and the dividends we paid per share of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in 2004 and 2005: 2004 2005 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Common Stock price per share* High $ 17.34 $ 16.48 $ 15.77 $ 15.00 $ 14.75 $ 11.69 $ 11.19 $ 10.00 Low 12.75 13.00 13.61 12.61 10.94 9.07 9.55 7.57 Dividends per share of Common and Class B Stock $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 * New York Stock Exchange composite interday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.NYSEnet.com. As of February 10, 2006, stockholders of record of Ford included 180,211 holders of Common Stock (which number does not include 6,448 former holders of old Ford Common Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which became effective on August 9, 2000) and 103 holders of Class B Stock. 28 ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (continued) During the fourth quarter of 2005, we purchased shares of our Common Stock as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased* Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs Oct. 1, 2005 through Oct. 31, 2005 2,289,994 $ 8.82 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Nov. 1, 2005 through Nov. 30, 2005 2,183,656 $ 8.15 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Dec. 1, 2005 through Dec. 31, 2005 2,494,720 $ 8.10 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Total 6,968,370 $ 8.35 0 * We currently do not have a publicly announced repurchase program in place. Of the 6,968,370 shares purchased, 6,954,640 shares were purchased from the Ford Motor Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried Employees ("SSIP") and the Tax Efficient Savings Plan for Hourly Employees ("TESPHE"). Shares are generally purchased from SSIP and TESPHE when participants in those plans elect to sell units in the Ford Stock Fund upon retirement, upon termination of employment with the Company, related to an in service distribution, or to fund a loan against an existing account balance in the Ford Stock Fund. Shares are not purchased from these plans when a participant transfers account balances out of the Ford Stock Fund and into another investment option under the plans. For the full year 2005, we purchased 25,823,410 shares on such basis from participants in SSIP and TESPHE. The remaining shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay income taxes with respect to: (i) the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock, (ii) the issuance of unrestricted stock, including issuances as a result of the conversion of restricted stock equivalents, or (iii) to pay the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises of stock options. 29 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial data concerning Ford for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts). Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Total Company Sales and revenues $ 177,089 $ 171,646 $ 164,331 $ 162,256 $ 160,652 Income/(loss) before income taxes $ 1,996 $ 4,853 $ 1,339 $ 1,064 $ (7,325 ) Provision/(credit) for income taxes (512 ) 938 123 342 (2,064 ) Minority interests in net income of subsidiaries 280 282 314 367 24 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 355 (5,285 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) (333 ) (168 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (251 ) (264 ) (1,002 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 $ (980 ) $ (5,453 ) Automotive sector Sales $ 153,503 $ 147,128 $ 138,253 $ 134,118 $ 130,599 Operating income/(loss) (4,209 ) (177 ) (1,556 ) (604 ) (7,471 ) Income/(loss) before income taxes (3,895 ) (155 ) (1,908 ) (1,054 ) (8,762 ) Financial Services sector Revenues $ 23,586 $ 24,518 $ 26,078 $ 28,138 $ 30,053 Income/(loss) before income taxes 5,891 5,008 3,247 2,118 1,437 Total Company Data Per Share of Common and Class B Stock Basic: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.21 $ 1.99 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.19 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.14 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.10 $ 1.91 $ 0.27 $ (0.55 ) $ (3.02 ) Diluted: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.14 $ 1.80 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued/held for sale operations 0.02 (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.18 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.11 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.05 $ 1.73 $ 0.27 $ (0.54 ) $ (3.02 ) Cash dividends $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 1.05 Common stock price range (NYSE Composite) High $ 14.75 $ 17.34 $ 17.33 $ 18.23 $ 31.42 Low 7.57 12.61 6.58 6.90 14.70 Average number of shares of Common and Class B stock outstanding (in millions) 1,846 1,830 1,832 1,819 1,820 SECTOR BALANCE SHEET DATA AT YEAR END Assets Automotive sector $ 113,829 $ 113,051 $ 111,230 $ 100,223 $ 88,150 Financial Services sector 162,194 189,100 195,482 187,606 188,345 Intersector elimination (83 ) (2,753 ) (3,356 ) (5,865 ) (4,650 ) Total assets $ 275,940 $ 299,398 $ 303,356 $ 281,964 $ 271,845 Long term Debt Automotive sector $ 16,900 $ 17,250 $ 18,758 $ 13,363 $ 13,467 Financial Services sector 104,119 113,992 126,336 124,970 124,050 Total long term debt $ 121,019 $ 131,242 $ 145,094 $ 138,333 $ 137,517 Stockholders Equity $ 12,957 $ 16,045 $ 11,651 $ 5,590 $ 7,786 30 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Generation of Revenue, Income and Cash Our Automotive sectors revenue, income and cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from such sales. Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealers purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealers obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays off the wholesale finance receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. Our Financial Services sectors revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest and operating expenses. Transactions between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue, and the Automotive sector makes the related cash payments, over the term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors. Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry Excess Capacity. According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2005 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 77 million units) significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about 62 million units). In North America and Europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 17% and 14%, respectively. According to production capacity data projected by CSM Worldwide, excess capacity conditions in North America could continue for several more years, but would be mitigated by the capacity reductions announced by us and General Motors Corporation when these planned reductions are completed. Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on manufacturers ability to increase prices on their products. In addition, the incremental new U.S. manufacturing capacity of foreign manufacturers (so called "transplants") in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure in that market. For example, in 2006, Toyota Motor Corporation is expected to complete construction of an assembly plant in Texas that reportedly will be capable of producing at least 200,000 full size pick up trucks per year. The reduction of real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the United States has become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to come. In Europe, the automotive industry also has experienced intense pricing pressure for several years for the same reasons discussed above, exacerbated in recent years by the Block Exemption Regulation discussed above in "Item 1. Business Automotive Sector." 31 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Consumer Spending Trends. We expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher end, more expensive vehicles and or vehicles with more features. Over the next decade, in the United States and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with GDP. The benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and Japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. We also expect that the North American market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. Health Care Expenses. In 2005, our health care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.5 billion, with about $2.4 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care. In 2005, prescription drugs continued to represent approximately one third of our total health care expense. Although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. For 2006, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs include an initial trend rate of 7%, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and appropriate employee cost sharing. Commodity and Energy Price Increases. Commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. In addition, energy prices increased significantly in 2005. In particular, gasoline prices in the United States increased in volatility and rose to levels well over $2.00 per gallon in 2005, and have remained at levels significantly higher than 2004. This has had an adverse effect on the demand for full and medium sized sport utility vehicles in the United States. Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. This created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo models) for sale in the United States and produce components in Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. Although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset reduces over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. We, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the United States, are not always able to price for depreciation of the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the United States. 32 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." Competitive Position. The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer. Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin. Detailed information regarding our competitive position in the principal markets where we compete can be found below as part of the overall discussion of the automotive industry in those markets. 3 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Seasonality. We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize sales proceeds in revenue) when it is produced and shipped to our customer (i.e., our dealer or distributor). We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealers and distributors for sale to retail and fleet customers) and retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealers and distributors to their customers at retail). We experience some fluctuation in the business of a seasonal nature. Generally, North American production is higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer, which are usually the strongest sales months of the year. Third quarter production is typically the lowest of the year, owing to the annual two week vacation shutdown of our manufacturing facilities during this quarter. As a result, operating results for the third quarter typically are less favorable than those of the other quarters. Raw Materials. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for use in the production of our vehicles from numerous suppliers around the world. These raw materials include non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas) and resins (e.g., polypropylene). We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our needs. However, there are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain of these raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs. See "Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview" for a discussion of commodity price trends, and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Commodity Price Risk" for a discussion of commodity price risks. Backlog Orders. We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. Intellectual Property. We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis. Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. As such, we have generated a large number of patents related to the operation of our business and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. We currently have approximately 12,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio being just over 5 years. In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we believe these patents, patent applications and know how, in the aggregate, to be important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, and the loss of any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business. Warranty Coverage and Additional Service Actions. Ford Motor Company or Ford Motor Vehicle Assurance Company, a subsidiary of Ford Motor Company, presently provides warranties on all vehicles sold by Ford Motor Company. Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale. The types of warranty coverage offered include base coverage (e.g., "bumper to bumper" coverage in the United States on Ford brand vehicles for 36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever occurs first), safety restraint coverage, and corrosion coverage. In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions defects and emissions performance warranty coverage. Pursuant to these warranties, Ford Motor Company will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Estimated warranty and additional service action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued for at the time of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty and additional service action costs are based on historical experience and subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience. Warranty accrual adjustments required when actual warranty claim experience differs from our estimates may have a material impact on our financial condition. For additional information with respect to costs for warranty and additional service actions, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" and Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 4 ITEM 1. Business (continued) United States Sales Data. The following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars and trucks for the years indicated: U.S. Industry Sales Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (millions of units) Cars 7.7 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.4 Trucks 9.8 9.8 9.4 9.0 9.1 Total 17.5 17.3 17.0 17.1 17.5 We classify cars by small, medium, large and premium segments, and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full size pickup, sport utility vehicles and medium/heavy segments. However, with the introduction of crossover vehicles, the distinction between traditional cars and trucks has become more difficult to draw, and these vehicles are not consistently classified as either cars or trucks across vehicle manufacturers. In the tables above and below, we have classified crossover vehicles as sport utility vehicles. In addition, we have classified as "premium" all of our luxury cars, regardless of size; premium sport utility vehicles and crossovers are included in "trucks." Annually, we conduct a comprehensive review of many factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally results in a change of classification for certain vehicles. The following tables show the proportion of U.S. car and truck unit sales by segment for the industry (including both domestic and foreign based manufacturers) and Ford (including all of our brands sold in the United States) for the years indicated: U.S. Industry Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 CARS Small 16.7 % 15.9 % 16.4 % 17.3 % 18.4 % Medium 12.6 13.6 14.8 15.6 15.8 Large 7.0 6.3 6.1 6.9 7.1 Premium 7.7 7.6 7.6 7.5 6.9 Total U.S. Industry Car Sales 44.0 43.4 44.9 47.3 48.2 TRUCKS Compact Pickup 3.9 % 4.0 % 4.4 % 4.7 % 5.1 % Bus/Van 8.2 8.2 8.0 8.6 8.7 Full Size Pickup 14.5 14.6 14.0 13.1 13.4 Sport Utility Vehicles 26.7 27.6 27.0 24.9 23.0 Medium/Heavy 2.7 2.2 1.7 1.4 1.6 Total U.S. Industry Truck Sales 56.0 56.6 55.1 52.7 51.8 Total U.S. Industry Vehicle Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Ford Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment in U.S. Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 CARS Small 10.9 % 10.2 % 11.4 % 12.5 % 14.0 % Medium 7.7 8.8 10.4 11.9 11.5 Large 8.3 5.0 4.8 4.4 5.2 Premium 5.9 6.6 7.0 7.8 7.0 Total Ford U.S. Car Sales 32.8 30.6 33.6 36.6 37.7 TRUCKS Compact Pickup 3.8 % 4.7 % 6.0 % 6.2 % 6.9 % Bus/Van 8.4 8.8 8.4 9.1 9.1 Full Size Pickup 28.4 28.2 24.3 22.5 22.9 Sport Utility Vehicles 26.1 27.4 27.5 25.4 23.2 Medium/Heavy 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total Ford U.S. Truck Sales 67.2 69.4 66.4 63.4 62.3 Total Ford U.S. Vehicle Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 5 ITEM 1. Business (continued) As the tables above indicate, there has been a general shift from cars to trucks for both industry sales and Ford sales; 2005 is the first year in recent years in which segmentation shifted back toward cars. Prior to 2005, both industry and Fords truck mix had been increasing since 2001, reflecting higher sales of sport utility vehicles and full size pickups. In 2005, in line with industry trends, Fords sport utility vehicle sales as a percent of total sales declined, while large and small car percentages increased. The increase in 2005 in the proportion of large cars sold by Ford largely reflects the introduction of new models in this segment (e.g., Ford Five Hundred and Mercury Montego). Market Share Data. Our principal competitors in the United States include General Motors Corporation, DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, Honda Motor Company and Nissan Motor Company. The following tables show changes in U.S. car and truck market share for Ford (including all of our brands sold in the U.S.), and for the other five leading vehicle manufacturers for the years indicated. The percentages in each of the following tables represent the percentage of the combined car and truck industry: U.S. Car Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 6.0 % 5.9 % 6.9 % 7.7 % 8.6 % General Motors 10.0 10.9 11.5 12.1 13.0 DaimlerChrysler 4.0 3.8 3.8 4.1 4.1 Toyota 7.4 6.4 5.9 5.8 5.5 Honda 4.8 4.9 4.8 4.9 5.1 Nissan 3.3 3.1 3.0 2.5 2.4 All Other** 8.5 8.4 9.0 10.2 9.5 Total U.S. Car Retail Deliveries 44.0 % 43.4 % 44.9 % 47.3 % 48.2 % U.S. Truck Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 12.2 % 13.4 % 13.6 % 13.4 % 14.2 % General Motors 15.8 16.2 16.4 16.2 15.0 DaimlerChrysler 10.5 10.3 10.0 10.0 10.1 Toyota 5.6 5.5 5.1 4.5 4.5 Honda 3.6 3.2 3.1 2.4 1.8 Nissan 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.5 1.7 All Other** 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.7 4.5 Total U.S. Truck Retail Deliveries 56.0 % 56.6 % 55.1 % 52.7 % 51.8 % U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market Shares* Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ford 18.2 % 19.3 % 20.5 % 21.1 % 22.8 % General Motors 25.8 27.1 27.9 28.3 28.0 DaimlerChrysler 14.5 14.1 13.8 14.1 14.2 Toyota 13.0 11.9 11.0 10.3 10.0 Honda 8.4 8.1 7.9 7.3 6.9 Nissan 6.2 5.7 4.7 4.4 4.1 All Other** 13.9 13.8 14.2 14.5 14.0 Total U.S. Car and Truck Retail Deliveries 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % * All U.S. retail sales data are based on publicly available information from the media and trade publications. ** "All Other" includes primarily companies based in Korea, other Japanese manufacturers and various European manufacturers, and, with respect to the U.S. Truck Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market Shares table, includes heavy truck manufacturers. The decline in overall market share for Ford since 2001 is primarily the result of several factors, including increased competition, a recent shift away from our stronger segments (e.g., traditional sport utility vehicles) and the discontinuation of a number of vehicles such as Ford Escort, Ford Explorer Sport, Mercury Cougar, Mercury Villager and Lincoln Continental. 6 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Fleet Sales. The sales data and market share information provided above include both retail and fleet sales. Fleet sales include sales to daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. The table below shows our fleet sales (including all brands) in the United States, and the amount of those sales as a percentage of our total U.S. car and truck sales for the last five years: Ford Fleet Sales Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Daily Rental Units 450,000 429,000 444,000 459,000 465,000 Commercial and Other Units 263,000 248,000 227,000 252,000 295,000 Government Units 141,000 133,000 124,000 123,000 143,000 Total Fleet Units 854,000 810,000 795,000 834,000 903,000 Percent of Fords total U.S. car and truck sales 27 % 24 % 23 % 23 % 23 % Total fleet sales increased in 2004 and 2005, reflecting a stronger fleet industry. Similarly, increased daily rental unit sales in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected strong segment demand. Europe Market Share Information. Outside of the United States, Europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and trucks. We consider Europe to consist of the following 19 markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and Poland. The automotive industry in Europe is intensely competitive. Our principal competitors in Europe include General Motors Corporation, Volkswagen A.G. Group, PSA Group, Renault Group and Fiat SpA. For the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held between 69% and 74% of the total car market. This competitive environment is expected to intensify further as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in Europe, and all of the other (non Ford) manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes Benz and Audi) continue to broaden their product offerings. For this discussion, 2005 market data are based on estimated registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual 2004 registrations. In 2005, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately 17.5 million cars and trucks in Europe, down 0.1% from 2004 levels. Our combined car and truck market share in Europe (including all of our brands sold in Europe) in 2005 was 10.8% (down 0.1 percentage points from 2004). Britain and Germany are our most important markets within Europe. Any adverse change in the British or German market has a significant effect on our total European automotive profits. For 2005 compared with 2004, total industry sales were down 4.4% in Britain and up 1.7% in Germany. Our combined car and truck market share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 19.5% in Britain (down 0.2 percentage points from the previous year), and 8.6% in Germany (down 0.2 percentage points from the previous year). Although not included in the primary 19 markets above, several additional markets in the region contribute to our Ford Europe business unit results. Fords share of the Turkish market increased by 1.5 percentage points to 17.0% the fourth year in a row that the Ford brand has led the market in sales in Turkey. We also are experiencing strong sales in Russia, where sales of Ford brand vehicles increased approximately 54% to 60,500 units in 2005. Motor Vehicle Distribution in Europe. On October 1, 2002, the Commission of the European Union ("Commission") adopted a new regulation that changed the way motor vehicles are sold and repaired throughout the European Community (the "Block Exemption Regulation"). Under the Block Exemption Regulation, manufacturers had the choice to either operate an "exclusive" distribution system with exclusive dealer sales territories, but with the possibility of sales to any reseller (e.g., supermarket chains, internet agencies and other resellers not authorized by the manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end customers both within and outside of the dealers exclusive sales territory, or a "selective" distribution system. We, as well as the vast majority of the other automotive manufacturers, have elected to establish a "selective" distribution system, allowing us to restrict the dealers ability to sell our vehicles to unauthorized resellers. In addition, under the "selective" distribution system, we are entitled to determine the number of our dealers but, since October 2005, not their location. Under either system, the new rules make it easier for a dealer to display and sell multiple brands in one store without the need to maintain separate facilities. 7 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Within this new regulation, the Commission also has adopted sweeping changes to the repair industry. Dealers can no longer be required by the manufacturer to perform repair work themselves. Instead, dealers may subcontract the work to independent repair shops that meet reasonable criteria set by the manufacturer. These authorized repair facilities may perform warranty and recall work, in addition to other repair and maintenance work. While a manufacturer may continue to require the use of its parts in warranty and recall work, the repair facility may use parts made by others that are of comparable quality for all other repair work. We have negotiated and implemented new Dealer, Authorized Repairer and Spare Part Supply contracts on a country by country level and, therefore, the Block Exemption Regulation now applies with respect to all of our dealers. With these new rules, the Commission intends to increase competition and narrow car price differences from country to country. While it remains difficult to quantify the full impact of these changes on our European operations, the Block Exemption Regulation continued to contribute to an increasingly competitive market for vehicles and parts. This has contributed to an increase in marketing expenses, thus negatively affecting the profitability of our Ford Europe and PAG segment. We anticipate that this trend may continue as dealers and parts suppliers become increasingly organized and established. Other Markets Canada and Mexico. Canada and Mexico also are important markets for us. In Canada, industry sales of new cars and trucks in 2005 were approximately 1.63 million units, up 3.5% from 2004 levels. In 2005, industry sales of new cars and trucks in Mexico were approximately 1.16 million units, up 3.8% from 2004. Our combined car and truck market share (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 13.9% in Canada (down 0.6 percentage points from the previous year), and 17.2% in Mexico (up 0.7 percentage points from the previous year). South America. Brazil and Argentina are our principal markets in South America. The economic environment in these countries has been volatile in recent years, particularly in 2002 and 2003, leading to large variations in industry sales. The 2004 and 2005 results have been favorably influenced by continued improvements in economic conditions, political stability and government actions to reduce inflation and public deficits. Industry sales in 2005 were approximately 1.7 million units in Brazil, up about 8.6% from 2004, and approximately 377,000 units in Argentina, up about 32.6% from 2004. Our combined car and truck share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2005 was 12.5% in Brazil (up 0.6 percentage points from the previous year) and 15.5% in Argentina (down 2.7 percentage points from the previous year). Asia Pacific. Australia, Taiwan, Thailand, South Africa and Japan are our principal markets in this region. Details of preliminary 2005 and actual 2004 industry volumes and our combined car and truck market share for these countries (including all of our brands sold in a particular country) are shown in the table below: Industry Volumes (in thousands) Corporate Market Share 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Australia 988 955 33 3 % 13.8 % 14.9 % (1.1) pts. South Africa 565 450 115 26 % 11.0 % 10.5 % 0.5 pts. Taiwan 514 484 30 6 % 11.2 % 11.0 % 0.2 pts. Thailand 700 626 74 12 % 3.5 % 4.2 % (0.7) pts. Japan 5,852 5,853 (1 ) 0 % * * * * Our combined car and truck market share in Japan has been less than 1% in recent years. We have an ownership interest in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda") of approximately 33.4%, and account for Mazda on an equity basis. Mazdas market share in the Asia Pacific region was 3.4% in 2005. Our principal competition in the Asia Pacific region has been the Japanese manufacturers. We anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region. We began operations in India in 1999, launching an all new small car (the Ikon) designed specifically for that market. In 2003, we launched the Endeavor, Fords first SUV in India, and we also launched the Fusion in late 2004 and the Fiesta in late 2005. Our operations in India also sell components to other Ford affiliates. 8 ITEM 1. Business (continued) We also are in the process of increasing our presence in China. Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("Changan Ford") is our 50/50 joint venture operation with Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. The Changan Ford assembly plant, located in Chongqing, became operational and began producing the Fiesta model in January 2003, and the Mondeo model later that year. The Focus model was launched in 2005. We also announced in 2003 that more than $1 billion would be invested over the next several years to expand manufacturing capacity, introduce new products and expand distribution channels in the Chinese automotive market. This investment will initially support the addition of new products and expansion of production capacity at Changan Ford in Chongqing from 50,000 units per year to about 200,000 units per year. It will also support the establishment of a second assembly plant and a new engine plant to be located in Nanjing. We began construction of these new facilities in 2005, with expected completion in 2007. Initial capacity at the new assembly facility is expected to be about 160,000 units annually. In addition, we have a 30% interest in Jiangling Motors Corporation Ltd., which has operations in Nanchang and assembles vehicles for distribution in China. We also import Jaguar, Volvo, Land Rover, and select Ford vehicles into China. We continue to operate a purchasing office in China to take advantage of sourcing opportunities for global markets from that country. For additional discussion of our joint ventures in China, see "Item 2. Properties." FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR Ford Motor Credit Company Ford Motor Credit Company ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. The predominant share of Ford Credits business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. Ford Credits primary financial products fall into the following three categories: Retail financing. Purchasing retail installment sales contracts and retail lease contracts from dealers, and offering financing to commercial customers, primarily vehicle leasing companies and fleet purchasers, to purchase or lease vehicle fleets; Wholesale financing. Making loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing; and Other financing. Making loans to dealers for working capital, improvements to dealership facilities, and the acquisition and refinancing of dealership real estate. Ford Credit also services the finance receivables and leases that it originates and purchases, makes loans to our affiliates, purchases certain receivables from us and our subsidiaries, and provides insurance services related to its financing programs. Ford Credits revenues are earned primarily from payments made under retail installment sale contracts and retail leases (including interest supplements and other support payments it receives from us on special rate retail financing programs), from investment and other income related to sold receivables, and from payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. Ford Credit does business in all 50 states of the United States through about 81 dealer automotive financing branches and seven regional service centers, and does business in all provinces in Canada through seven dealer automotive financing branches and two regional service centers. Outside of the United States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credits largest operation. FCEs primary business is to support the sale of our vehicles in Europe through our dealer network. FCE offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it operates; FCE does business in the United Kingdom, Germany and most other European countries. Ford Credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates in the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions. In addition, FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. Ford Credits share of retail financing for new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford brand vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as Ford Credits share of wholesale financing for new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and of new Ford brand vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe, were as follows during the last three years: 9 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 United States Financing share Ford, Lincoln and Mercury Retail installment and lease 37 % 45 % 39 % Wholesale 81 84 85 Europe Financing share Ford Retail installment and lease 28 % 29 % 31 % Wholesale 96 97 97 For a detailed discussion of Ford Credits receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss to receivables ratios, funding sources and funding strategies, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." For a discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." We sponsor special rate financing programs available only through Ford Credit. Under these programs, we make interest supplement or other support payments to Ford Credit. These programs increase Ford Credits financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information about these support payments. Under a profit maintenance agreement with Ford Credit, we have agreed to make payments to maintain Ford Credits earnings at certain levels. In addition, under a support agreement with FCE, Ford Credit has agreed to maintain FCEs net worth above a minimum level. No payments were made under either of these agreements during the 2003 through 2005 periods. GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS A number of governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, damageability, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. In addition, manufacturing and assembly facilities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. Such facilities also may be subject to comprehensive national, regional, and or local permit programs with respect to such matters. Mobile Source Emissions Control U.S. Requirements. The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States. In 1999, the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") promulgated post 2004 model year standards that were more stringent than the default standards contained in the Clean Air Act. These regulations require light duty trucks and certain heavy duty passenger carrying trucks to meet the same emissions standards as passenger cars by the 2007 model year, and extend emissions durability requirements to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). The stringency of these standards presents compliance challenges and is likely to hinder efforts to employ light duty diesel technology, which could negatively impact our ability to meet Corporate Average Fuel Economy ("CAFE") standards. The EPA also promulgated post 2004 emissions standards for "heavy duty" trucks (8,500 14,000 lbs. gross vehicle weight), which are also likely to pose technological challenges. As discussed in "Stationary Source Emissions Control" below, the EPA continues to revise the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter and ozone, and to redesignate areas of the country from "attainment" to "non attainment" status. These changes will further increase pressure to reduce vehicle emissions of particulate matter, volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxide. Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California has received a waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique emissions control standards. New vehicles and engines sold in California must be certified by the California Air Resources Board ("CARB"). CARB has adopted stringent vehicle emissions standards that began phasing in with the 2004 model year. These new standards treat most light duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet new stringent emissions requirements. As with the EPAs post 2004 standards, CARBs vehicle standards present a difficult engineering challenge, and will essentially rule out the use of light duty diesel technology. In 2004, CARB voted to adopt standards limiting emissions of "greenhouse" gases (e.g., carbon dioxide) from new motor vehicles. Although CARB claims that its vehicle emissions regulations provide authority for it to 10 ITEM 1. Business (continued) adopt such regulations, the EPA has determined that greenhouse gases are not subject to regulation under the federal Clean Air Act. Since greenhouse gas standards are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards, this issue is discussed more fully in the "Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy" section below. Since 1990, the California program has included requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero emission vehicles ("ZEVs"), which produce no emission of regulated pollutants (typically battery powered vehicles, which have had narrow consumer appeal due to their limited range, reduced functionality, and high cost). This ZEV mandate initially required that a specified percentage of each manufacturers vehicles produced for sale in California be ZEVs, beginning at 2% in 1998 and increasing to 10% in 2003. In 1996, CARB eliminated the ZEV mandate for the 1998 2002 model years, but retained the 10% mandate in a modified form beginning with the 2003 model year. In April 2003, CARB adopted amendments to the ZEV mandate that shifted the near term focus of the regulation away from battery electric vehicles to advanced technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions. The rules also give some credit for so called "partial zero emission vehicles" ("PZEVs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. In addition, the rules call on the auto industry to ramp up production of zero emission fuel cell vehicles over the longer term. In the aggregate, the industry must produce 250 zero emission fuel cell vehicles by the 2008 model year, and 2,500 more in the 2009 2011 model year period. A panel of independent experts will review the feasibility of these requirements in 2006. While the changes appear to reflect a recognition that battery electric vehicles simply do not have the potential to achieve widespread consumer acceptance, there are substantial questions about the feasibility of producing the required number of zero emission fuel cell vehicles due to the substantial engineering challenges and high costs associated with this technology. It is doubtful whether the market will support the number of required ZEVs, even taking into account the recent modifications of the ZEV mandate. Fuel cell technology in the future may enable production of ZEVs with widespread consumer appeal. However, due to the engineering challenges, the high cost of the technology, infrastructure needs, and other issues, it does not appear that mass production of fuel cell vehicles will be commercially feasible for years to come. Compliance with the ZEV mandate may eventually require costly actions that would have a substantial adverse effect on Fords sales volume and profits. For example, Ford could be required to curtail the sale of non ZEVs and or offer to sell ZEVs, advanced technology vehicles, and PZEVs well below cost. The Clean Air Act permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt Californias motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. In addition to California, nine states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the California standards (including Californias greenhouse gas provisions). Eight of these states also adopted the ZEV requirements. These nine states, together with California, account for approximately 25% of Fords current light duty vehicle sales volume in the United States. More states are considering adopting the California standards. Unfortunately, there are problems inherent in transferring California standards to other states, including the following: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV mandate requirements on a state by state basis presents a major challenge to automobile company distribution systems; 2) the driving range of many ZEVs is greatly diminished in cold weather, thereby limiting their market appeal; and 3) the states adopting the California program have refused thus far to adopt the California reformulated gasoline regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles to meet Californias in use standards. Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA and CARB may require manufacturers to recall and repair non conforming vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the manufacturer, the EPA or CARB), or we may voluntarily stop shipment of or recall non conforming vehicles. The costs of related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop shipment order, could be substantial. Both CARB and the EPA also have adopted on board diagnostic ("OBD") regulations, which require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle operator (via the "check engine" light) of any malfunction. These regulations have become extremely complicated, and creation of a compliant system requires substantial engineering resources. In 2005, CARB adopted even more stringent OBD requirements for heavy duty vehicles, and has initiated rulemaking to further regulate light duty vehicle OBD systems. Many states have implemented OBD tests as part of their inspection and maintenance program. Failure of in service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. European Requirements. European Union ("EU") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU. In 1998, the EU adopted a new directive on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial trucks. More stringent emissions standards applied to new car certifications beginning January 1, 2000 and to new car registrations beginning January 1, 2001 ("Stage III Standards"). A second level of even more stringent emissions standards were applied to new car certifications beginning January 1, 2005 and to new car registrations beginning 11 ITEM 1. Business (continued) January 1, 2006 ("Stage IV Standards"). The comparable light commercial truck Stage III Standards and Stage IV Standards come into effect one year later than the passenger car requirements. This directive on emissions also introduced OBD requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions related defects that occur in the first five years or 80,000 kilometers of vehicle life (extended to 100,000 kilometers in 2005). Failure of in service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. The Stage IV Standards for diesel engines have proven technologically difficult and precluded manufacturers from offering some products in time to be eligible for government incentive programs. The EU commenced a program in 2004 to determine the specifics for further changes to vehicle emissions standards, and in 2005 the European Commission published a proposed law for Stage V emissions. Specific mandated targets/limits are yet to be determined. It is anticipated that the law will not be finalized before the end of 2006. Other National Requirements. Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ("UNECE") mobile source emissions regulations. Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China has adopted the most recent European standards to be implemented in the 2008 2010 timeframe. Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S. based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European based standards for diesel vehicles. Because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in these markets. Furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. This could lead to problems, particularly if OBD or in use surveillance are implemented. Japan has unique standards and test procedures, and is considering more stringent standards for implementation in 2009. This may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market. Stationary Source Emissions Control In the United States, the federal Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to identify "hazardous air pollutants" from various industries and promulgate rules restricting their emission. The EPA has issued final rules for a variety of industrial categories, several of which would further regulate emissions from our U.S. operations, including engine testing, automobile surface coating and iron casting. These technology based standards require certain of our facilities to significantly reduce their air emissions. Additional programs under the Clean Air Act, including Compliance Assurance Monitoring and periodic monitoring could require our facilities to install additional emission monitoring equipment. The cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. The Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to periodically review and update its National Ambient Air Quality Standards, and to designate whether counties or other local areas are in compliance with the new standards. If an area or county does not meet the new standards ("non attainment areas"), the state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment. The EPA recently established new designations that reclassify many of the areas where Fords manufacturing facilities are located as non attainment areas. It is likely that the affected states will revise their implementation plans to require additional emission control equipment and impose more stringent permit requirements on these facilities. The cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. Motor Vehicle Safety U.S. Requirements. The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the United States in two primary ways. First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA"). Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. A manufacturer also is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. Should Ford or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of Fords vehicles, the costs of such recall campaigns could be substantial. There were pending before NHTSA eight investigations relating to alleged safety defects or potential compliance issues in Ford vehicles as of January 17, 2006. The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users ("SAFETEA LU") was also signed into law in 2005. SAFETEA LU establishes a number of substantive, safety related rulemaking mandates for NHTSA that can be expected to result in new regulations and product content requirements. The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act (the "TREAD Act") was signed into law in November 2000. The TREAD Act required NHTSA to establish several new regulations, including reporting requirements for motor 12 ITEM 1. Business (continued) vehicle manufacturers on foreign recalls and certain information received by the manufacturer that may assist the agency in the early identification of safety defects. As part of its rulemaking efforts, NHTSA defined certain types of material provided by manufacturers as competitively sensitive and entitled to a presumption of confidentiality, including warranty claim information, field reports, and consumer complaint information. Public Citizen, an advocacy organization, has filed a lawsuit challenging NHTSAs confidentiality determinations, which may be resolved in the 2006 calendar year. If Public Citizen prevails, Ford and other manufacturers may lose the ability to protect warranty and consumer information after it is submitted to NHTSA pursuant to the TREAD Act. Foreign Requirements. Canada, the EU, individual member countries within the EU, and other countries in Europe, South America and the Asia Pacific markets also have safety standards applicable to motor vehicles and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent standards in the future. In addition, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association ("EAMA") (also known in Europe as the "ACEA"), of which Ford is a member, made a voluntary commitment in June 2001 to introduce a range of safety measures to improve pedestrian protection with the first phase starting in 2005 and a second phase starting in 2010. Similar commitments were subsequently made by the Japanese and Korean automobile manufacturers associations. As a result, over 99% of cars and small vans sold in Europe are covered by industry safety commitments. The European Council of Ministers and the European Parliament published a directive in December 2003 and a decision in February 2004, which together set forth detailed technical provisions for enforcement of the industry commitments (i.e., the application dates, the types of tests to be conducted, the test procedures to be used and the limit values to be achieved). Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy U.S. Requirements. Under federal law, vehicles must meet minimum corporate average fuel economy standards set by NHTSA. A manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years. Federal law established a passenger car CAFE standard of 27.5 miles per gallon for 1985 and later model years, which NHTSA believes it has the authority to amend to a level it determines to be the maximum feasible level. By rule, NHTSA has set light truck CAFE standards of 21.6 miles per gallon for model year 2006, and of 22.2 miles per gallon for model year 2007. In August 2005, NHTSA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding light truck fuel economy standards for the 2008 2011 model years. The proposed rules set forth a new structure for light truck fuel economy standards. Under the proposal, each manufacturer would be required, by the 2011 model year, to apply a series of size based category targets to its particular mix of light trucks in order to calculate the light truck fuel economy standards applicable to that manufacturer. In model years 2008 2010, manufacturers would have the option of complying with traditional light truck standards set by NHTSA, or opting into the new structure. The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Ford, and other automotive companies have submitted extensive comments on the proposed rules. In general, Ford favors the new structure proposed by NHTSA, but until the final rule is established the effect of NHTSAs proposal on Fords ability to comply with light truck CAFE requirements remains unclear. NHTSA is expected to issue a final rule in April 2006. There are indications that NHTSA may begin work on a new rule to raise car CAFE standards once the light truck rule is finalized. In addition, a number of CAFE related bills have been introduced in Congress, where there is always the possibility that new legislation could vitiate the existing regulatory process and establish new fuel economy standards by statute. Pressure to increase CAFE standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the global climate. In 1999, a petition was filed with the EPA requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. This would have the effect of imposing more stringent fuel economy standards, since the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the amount of fuel consumed. The petitioners later filed suit in an effort to compel a formal response from the EPA. In August 2003, the EPA denied the petition on the grounds that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, and only NHTSA is authorized to regulate fuel economy under the CAFE law. A number of states, cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the EPAs decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. A coalition of states and industry trade groups, including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (an industry trade group made up of nine leading automotive manufacturers including BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, General Motors and Toyota (the "Alliance")) intervened in support of the EPAs decision. In July 2005, the Court held that the EPA had exercised reasonable discretion in determining not to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant. The petitioners are seeking review of this holding by the United States Supreme Court. In September 2004, CARB adopted California greenhouse gas emissions regulations applicable to 2009 2016 model year cars and trucks, effectively imposing more stringent fuel economy standards than those set by NHTSA. These regulations impose standards that are equivalent to a CAFE standard of more than 43 miles per gallon for passenger cars and small trucks, and approximately 13 ITEM 1. Business (continued) 27 miles per gallon for large light trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles by model year 2016. The Alliance and individual companies (including Ford) submitted comments opposing the rules and addressing errors in CARBs underlying economic and technical analyses. In December 2004, the Alliance filed suit in federal district court in Fresno, California. The suit challenges the regulation on several bases, including that it is preempted by the federal CAFE law. That litigation is now in the discovery phase, and trial is expected in 2007. A host of other states have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, CARBs greenhouse gas standards. These states include New York, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Oregon, and Washington. Several other states are known to be considering the adoption of such rules. As of this writing, the Alliance has filed litigation in the state courts of New York and Oregon alleging procedural errors associated with these states adoption of greenhouse gas rules. The Alliance has also filed suit in federal court challenging Vermonts adoption of these rules. Additional cases are likely to be filed in 2006. Fords ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and or are feature laden, while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family size, luxury, and high performance cars and full size light trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and or increase market support programs for our most fuel efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. European Requirements. The EU is a party to the Kyoto Protocol and has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below their 1990 levels during the 2008 2012 period. In December 1997, the European Council of Environment Ministers reaffirmed its goal to reduce average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars to 120 grams per kilometer by 2010 (at the latest) and invited European motor vehicle manufacturers to negotiate further with the European Commission on a satisfactory voluntary environmental agreement to help achieve this goal. In October 1998, the EU agreed to support an environmental agreement with ACEA (of which Ford is a member) on carbon dioxide emission reductions from new passenger cars (the "ACEA Agreement"). The ACEA Agreement establishes an emissions target of 140 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer for the average of new cars sold in the EU by the ACEAs members in 2008. Average carbon dioxide emissions of 140 grams per kilometer for new passenger cars corresponds to a 25% reduction in average carbon dioxide emissions compared to 1995. To date, the industry has made good progress, and has met the interim target for 2003 (165 170 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer); however, achieving the 140 grams per kilometer target remains ambitious both technologically and economically. In 2005, ACEA and the European Commission reviewed the potential for additional carbon dioxide reductions, with the goal of achieving the EUs objective of 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer by 2010. The discussions are advancing the concept of an integrated approach to further reductions involving the oil industry and other sectors. Other European countries are considering other initiatives for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal measures. For example, the U.K. introduced a vehicle excise duty and company car taxation based on carbon dioxide emissions in 2001, and other member states such as France and Portugal have announced their intention to adopt carbon dioxide based taxes for passenger cars. Other National Requirements. Some Asian countries (such as China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan) have also adopted fuel efficiency targets. For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2010 passenger car and commercial trucks with incentives for early adoption. China has adopted targets for 2005 and 2008, and is expected to continue setting new targets to address energy security issues. Following considerable discussion, the Canadian automobile industry signed a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") dated April 5, 2005 with the Canadian government in which the industry voluntarily committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the Canadian vehicle fleet by 5.3 megatons ("Mt") by 2010 (which slightly exceeds the governments 5.2 Mt target under its Kyoto Protocol Climate Change Action Plan). The MOU contains the following interim targets for the entire Canadian automobile industry: 2.4 Mt reduction by 2007, total reduction of 3.0 Mt in 2008, total reduction of 3.9 Mt in 2009 and the full 5.3 Mt reduction in 2010. Pursuant to the MOU, a committee of industry and government representatives has been established to monitor the industrys overall compliance with the annual MOU targets. 14 ITEM 1. Business (continued) European Chemicals Policy The European Commission adopted a draft regulation in October 2003 for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of certain chemicals ("REACH"). Final adoption of the regulation is anticipated in the 2006 2007 timeframe, followed by a pre registration phase of eighteen months. Implementation of the legislation is likely to be administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research and development ("R&D") resources may be redirected from "market driven" to "REACH driven" R&D. The regulation also may accelerate the ban or restriction on use of certain chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts. Pollution Control Costs During the period 2006 through 2010, we expect to spend approximately $346 million on our North American and European facilities to comply with air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards which are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. Of this total, we estimate spending approximately $69 million in 2006 and $71 million in 2007. Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. EMPLOYMENT DATA The approximate number of individuals employed by us and our consolidated entities (including entities we do not control) at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in thousands): 2005 2004* Business Unit Automotive The Americas Ford North America 140 126 Ford South America 13 12 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 66 69 PAG 49 51 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 18 18 Financial Services Ford Motor Credit Company 14 18 The Hertz Corporation 31 Total 300 325 * Employment figures for 2004 have been adjusted to conform to 2005 business unit presentation. As shown in the employment data above, from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005, the number of people we employed decreased approximately eight percent. This decrease primarily reflects the sale of Hertz, partially offset by the formation of Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH") which employs approximately 17,700 Ford hourly workers who were previously assigned to Visteon Corporation ("Visteon") and approximately 2,500 former Visteon employees. Not included in these employment data are approximately 5,000 Visteon salaried workers leased to ACH. See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview" and Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion relating to the Visteon transaction and ACH. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive segment are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Automobile Workers"). Approximately 2% of our U.S. salaried employees are represented by unions. Most hourly employees and many non management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United States also are represented by unions. 15 ITEM 1. Business (continued) Our average labor cost per hour worked for hourly employees of Ford in the United States, excluding subsidiaries, was as follows for the listed years: 2005 2004 Earnings $ 31.64 $ 30.93 Benefits 33.26 32.00 Total $ 64.90 $ 62.93 We have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the UAW, and the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada ("CAW" or "Canadian Automobile Workers"). Among other things, our agreements with the UAW and CAW provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the term of the respective agreements, and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. Our agreement with the UAW expires on September 14, 2007, and our agreement with the CAW expires on September 16, 2008. Historically, negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements with the UAW and CAW have typically resulted in increases in wages and benefits, including retirement benefits; some of these increases typically have been provided to salaried employees as well. In 2005, we negotiated new Ford collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. We also negotiated new collective bargaining agreements to cover employees at our Aston Martin (Britain), Land Rover (Britain) and Volvo (Belgium and Sweden) affiliates. In 2006, we are or will be negotiating new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Britain, France, Germany, Mexico, Russia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. We will also negotiate new collective bargaining agreements at our Jaguar (Britain) and Volvo (Sweden) affiliates. In recent years, we have not had significant work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers. A work stoppage could occur as a result of disputes under our collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, which, if protracted, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Work stoppages at supplier facilities for labor or other reasons could have similar consequences if alternate sources of components are not readily available. ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. We also have staffs of scientists who engage in basic research. We maintain extensive engineering, research and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in Dearborn, Michigan; Dunton, Gaydon and Whitley, England; Gothenburg, Sweden; and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany. Most of our engineering research and development relates to our Automotive sector. In general, our engineering activities that do not involve basic research or product development, such as manufacturing engineering, are excluded from our engineering, research and development charges discussed below. During the last three years, we recorded charges to our consolidated income for engineering, research and development we sponsored in the following amounts: $8.0 billion (2005), $7.4 billion (2004), and $7.3 billion (2003). Any customer sponsored research and development activities that we conduct are not material. 16 ITEM 1. Business (continued) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: Continued decline in market share. Our market share in the United States has declined in each of the past five years, from 22.8% in 2001 to 18.2% in 2005. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, these volume reductions have had an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our plant utilization rate in North America is approximately 75%, which is not sustainable. While we are attempting to stabilize our market share and reduce our capacity over time through the steps described in the Way Forward plan, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. Continued declines in our market share could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors. The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. For example, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of approximately 15 million units in 2005. Industry overcapacity has resulted in many of our principal competitors offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain market share. These marketing incentives have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates and other incentives. As a result, we have not necessarily been able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases (e.g., for commodities or health care) or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the U.S. or European markets. While we and General Motors have each announced plans to significantly reduce capacity, these reductions will take several years to complete and will only partially address the industrys overcapacity problems. A continuation or increase in these trends could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States. Trucks and sport utility vehicles have represented some of the most profitable vehicle segments in the United States. During the past year, there has been a general shift in consumer preferences away from medium and large sized sport utility vehicles, which has adversely affected our profitability. A continuation or acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences away from sport utility vehicles, or a similar shift in consumer preferences away from truck sales or other more profitable vehicle sales, whether because of higher fuel prices or otherwise, could have an increasingly adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors. The worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over which automobile manufacturers have little control. This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle. The decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo political events, and other factors. Consumer demand may vary substantially from year to year, and, in any given year, consumer demand may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel. Moreover, like other manufacturers, we have a high proportion of costs that are fixed, so that relatively small changes in unit sales volumes may dramatically affect overall profitability. In recent years, industry demand has remained at high levels. Should industry demand soften because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected. For additional discussion of economic trends, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. Offering highly desirable vehicles can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand. Conversely, offering vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value or otherwise) can exacerbate these risks. For example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicles perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share and profitability. Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel. A continuation of or further increase in high prices for fuel or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the United States, could result in weaker demand for relatively more profitable large and luxury car and truck models and increased demand for relatively less profitable small cars and trucks. An acceleration 17 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) of such a trend, as demonstrated in the short term with the recent spike in fuel prices following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the U.S. Gulf Coast region, could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Currency or commodity price fluctuations. As a resource intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our results. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of currency or commodity price risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor. We and certain of our major competitors have substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee benefits) that put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to other competitors. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor with substantial "legacy" costs could result in that competitor gaining a significant cost advantage (by eliminating or reducing contractual obligations to unions and other parties through bankruptcy proceedings). In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major U.S. auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials. Automobile manufacturers continue to experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. These factors have also increased pressure on the industrys supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. We have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. Most significantly, in 2005 we reacquired from Visteon twenty three North American facilities in order to protect our supply of components. In connection with this transaction, we forgave $1.1 billion of Visteons liability to us for employee related costs, and incurred a pre tax loss of $468 million. Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies. A work stoppage could occur at Ford or supplier facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under an existing collective bargaining agreement could arise, for example, as a result of efforts to implement restructuring actions, such as those that are part of the Way Forward plan discussed under "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." A work stoppage for this or other reasons at Ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason (e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Single source supply of components or materials. Some components used in our vehicles (e.g., certain engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component. Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our agreement with the United Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2007) and our agreement with the Canadian Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2008) provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. These agreements may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency related improvements. Accordingly, these agreements may impede our ability to successfully implement and complete the Way Forward plan. For discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 18 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). We sponsor plans to provide postretirement pension, health care and life insurance benefits for our retired employees. The measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with these benefits requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). To the extent that actual results are less favorable than our assumptions there could be a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of these assumptions, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs. Meeting or exceeding many government mandated safety standards is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. Government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions. The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. In the United States and Europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. Many governments regulate local product content and or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. The cost of complying with these requirements may be substantial. Our ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and or are feature laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family size, luxury, and high performance cars and full size light trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and or increase market support programs for our most fuel efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. See "Item 1. Governmental Standards" for additional discussion. Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other standards. However, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. For example, the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law. Furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"). We have entered into a number of long term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. If our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take or pay contract. We also have entered into a small number of long term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. If our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a suppliers output of materials were to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need. Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. Recent lowering of credit ratings for Ford and Ford Credit has increased borrowing costs and caused Ford Credits access to the unsecured debt markets to become more restricted. In response, Ford Credit has increased its 19 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect Ford Credits ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. For additional discussion, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Higher than expected credit losses. Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customers or dealers failure to make payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credits business. The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations. For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Some of Ford Credits bank competitors in the United States have developed credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit is facing increased competition from banks on wholesale financing for Ford dealers. Competition from such competitors may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credits profitability and the volume of its business. Changes in interest rates. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credits interest rate risk exposure results principally from "re pricing risk, or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and or satisfy its customers. Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credits profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth in Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credits subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We believe that our ability to implement the Way Forward plan is very important to our future success. Any of the above or other factors that prevent us from executing the Way Forward plan ultimately could have a substantially adverse impact on our business. For additional discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments to report. ITEM 2. Properties Our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices and engineering centers. We own substantially all of our U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities. These facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, and transmission plants. Most of our distribution centers are leased (approximately 38% of our total square footage is owned). A substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third party providers under service contracts. Because the facilities provided pursuant to third party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. All of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. Substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. Approximately 92% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. In addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside the United States. We own substantially all of our non U.S. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. The majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the United States are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. As in the United States, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. The total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments are shown in the table below: Segment Plants Distribution Centers/Warehouses Engineering, Research/Development Sales Offices The Americas 61 33 41 38 Ford Europe and PAG 38 11 9 27 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 14 3 2 5 Total 113 47 52 70 Included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our Automotive sector. Following are the most significant of these consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants they own: AutoAlliance International ("AAI") a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda (of which we own approximately 33.4%), which operates as its principal business an automobile vehicle assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan. AAI currently produces the Mazda6 and Ford Mustang models. Ford supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to AAI, and AAI reimburses Ford for the full cost of that labor. Ford Otosan a joint venture in Turkey between Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey (41% partner) and public investors (18%) that is our single source supplier of the Ford Transit Connect vehicle and our sole distributor of Ford vehicles in Turkey. In addition, Ford Otosan makes the Ford Transit series and the Cargo truck for the Turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. This joint venture owns and operates two plants and a parts distribution depot in Turkey. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH and Co. KG, a German company, to which we transferred our European manual transmission operations in Halewood, England; Cologne, Germany; and Bordeaux, France. In 2004, Volvo Car Corporation ("Volvo Cars") agreed to transfer its manual transmission operations from its Kping, Sweden plant to this joint venture. The Getrag joint venture produces manual transmissions for our operations in Europe (Ford Europe and PAG). Ford currently supplies most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this Getrag joint venture. Ford employees who worked at the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture by Ford. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to the joint venture may return to Ford. Employees hired in the future to work in 21 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) these operations will be employed directly by the joint venture. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH reimburses Ford for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor supplied by Ford. This joint venture operates three plants. Getrag All Wheel Drive AB a joint venture in Sweden between Getrag Dana Holding GmbH ("Getrag/Dana") (60% partner) and Volvo Cars (40% partner). In January 2004, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Getrag/Dana to transfer Volvo Cars plant in Kping, Sweden to this joint venture. The joint venture produces all wheel drive components and, for a time, chassis components as well. As noted above, the manual transmission operations at the Kping plant were transferred to Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH. The hourly and salaried employees at the plant have become employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR Cologne GmbH ("TEKFOR") a 50/50 joint venture of Ford Werke GmbH ("Ford Werke") together with Neumayer Tekfor GmbH, a German company, to which Ford Werke transferred the operations of the Ford forge in Cologne. The joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and chassis, for use in Ford vehicles and for sale to third parties. Those Ford employees who worked at the Cologne Forge Plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture are assigned to TEKFOR by Ford and remain Ford employees. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to TEKFOR may return to Ford. New workers at the joint venture will be hired as employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR reimburses Ford for the full cost of Ford employees assigned to the joint venture. This joint venture operates one plant. Pininfarina Sverige, AB a joint venture between Volvo Cars (40% partner) and Pininfarina, S.p.A. ("Pininfarina") (60% partner). In September 2003, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Pininfarina to establish this joint venture for the engineering and manufacture of niche vehicles, starting with a new, small convertible. Volvo Cars has outsourced the design and engineering to Pininfarina. The joint venture began production of the new car at the Uddevalla Plant in Sweden, which was transferred from Volvo Cars to the joint venture in December 2005, and is the joint ventures only plant. Ford Vietnam Limited a joint venture between Ford (75% partner) and Song Cong Diesel (25% partner). Ford Vietnam assembles and distributes several Ford vehicles in Vietnam, including Escape, Everest, Focus, Mondeo, Ranger and Transit. This joint venture operates one plant. Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd. ("FLH") a joint venture in Taiwan among Ford (70% partner), the Lio Ho Group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of Ford and Mazda vehicles sourced from Ford as well as Mazda and Suzuki. In addition to domestic assembly, FLH also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports Ford brand built up vehicles from Europe and the United States. This joint venture operates one plant. In addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our Automotive sector are operated by other, unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. These additional plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. The most significant of these joint ventures are: AutoAlliance (Thailand) ("AAT") a joint venture among Ford (50%), Mazda (45%) and a Thai affiliate of Mazdas (5%), which owns and operates a manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand. AAT produces the Ford Everest, Ford Ranger and Mazda B Series pickup trucks for the Thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide (other than North America), in both built up and kit form. Blue Diamond Truck, S de RL de CV a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and International Truck and Engine Corporation (51% partner), a subsidiary of Navistar International Corporation ("Navistar"). Blue Diamond Truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford and Navistar for their own independent distribution. Blue Diamond Truck manufactures Ford F 650/750 medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in 22 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) the United States and Canada, and Navistar medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in Mexico. Production of a low cab forward, light /medium duty commercial truck for each of Ford and Navistar began in May 2005. Tenedora Nemak, S.A. de C.V. a joint venture between Ford (15% partner) and a subsidiary of Mexican conglomerate Alfa S.A. de C.V. (85% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, our former Canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. Ford supplies a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the Canadian plants, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("Changan Ford") a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Changan"). Through its facility in the Chinese city of Chongqing, Changan Ford produces and distributes in China the Ford Fiesta, Mondeo and Focus, and is planning to launch Mazda3 vehicles in 2006. In 2005, Changan Ford received approval from the Chinese government for the establishment of a new vehicle manufacturing plant in the Chinese city of Nanjing, which is now under construction. Changan Ford has also filed an application with the Chinese government to reorganize its current equity structure as follows: Changan 50%, Ford 35% and Mazda 15%. Upon completion of such equity reorganization, Changan Ford would change its corporate name to Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd. Changan Ford Mazda Engine Company, Ltd. ("CFME") a joint venture between Ford (25% partner), Mazda (25% partner) and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd (50% partner). CFME is located in the City of Nanjing, and will produce the Ford New I4 and Mazda BZ engines in support of the assembly of Ford and Mazda branded \ vehicles manufactured in China. Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. ("JMC") a publicly traded company in China with Ford (30% shareholder) and Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. and Jiangling Motors Company Group. The public investors of JMC own 29% of its outstanding shares. JMC assembles the Ford Transit van and other non Ford technology based vehicles for distribution in China. Ford Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and Tractors Malaysia, a publicly traded subsidiary of Sime Darby (51% partner). Ford Malaysia distributes Ford vehicles assembled by its wholly owned subsidiary Associated Motor Industries Malaysia, Sdn. Bhd., an assembly company, including Econovan, Escape, Everest, Laser and Ranger. The furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our Financial Services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. The facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings OVERVIEW Various legal actions, governmental investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted in the future against us and our subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental regulations covering safety, emissions and fuel economy; financial services; employment related matters; dealer, supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; shareholder and investor matters; and financial reporting matters. Some of the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very large expenditures. We regularly evaluate the expected outcome of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. We have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical litigation payouts and trends. We have also accrued expenses for other litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. These accruals are reflected in our financial statements. Following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: 23 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) PRODUCT LIABILITY MATTERS Asbestos Matters. Asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive components dating from the early 1900s. Along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with certain Ford parts and other products containing asbestos. Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. The majority of these cases have been filed in state courts. Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. In most of the asbestos litigation we are not the sole defendant. We believe we are being more aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. We are prepared to defend these asbestos related cases and, with respect to the cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long standing position that mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of asbestos related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate. The majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages, and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum. The vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. Many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and we are often unable to tell from the pleadings which of the plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). Our annual payout and related defense costs in asbestos cases had been increasing between 1999 and 2003. In 2005, these costs were about the same as in 2003 and 2004; however, they may become substantial in the future. The United States Congress continues to consider proposals to reform asbestos litigation. The leading proposal would create a trust fund from which eligible asbestos claimants would be compensated and would preclude, during the life of the trust, litigation in the United States based on exposure to asbestos. The trust fund would be funded by asbestos defendants (including us) and the insurance industry. These funds would be used to pay eligible claimants (i.e., those who satisfy specific medical criteria and can adequately demonstrate occupational exposure to asbestos) according to a specified schedule. If legislation is enacted creating such a trust fund, we would likely be required to make substantial contributions to the fund over a specified period of time, resulting in our incurring a charge in the amount of the present value of such anticipated contributions in the period in which the legislation becomes effective. We cannot predict whether or in what form the legislation will be enacted or the costs associated with such enactment. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS General. We have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. We also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. The amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be substantial. The contingent losses that we expect to incur in connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, for many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration, and success of remediation). As a result, we are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible in connection with these sites, although that total could be substantial. 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) St. Louis Assembly Plant Enforcement Action. In 2005, the Department of Justice ("DOJ") advised us that the EPA had referred to it for civil enforcement a matter regarding refrigerants used in several types of process equipment at our St. Louis Assembly Plant. The referral is based on the EPAs belief that the plant did not comply with all of the Clean Air Acts recordkeeping, testing, and repair requirements related to process equipment with regulated refrigerants. We are fully cooperating with the DOJ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Woodhaven Stamping Plant Letter of Violation. In 2005, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") issued a letter of violation to Fords Woodhaven Stamping Plant alleging that the facility had failed to properly report emissions from boilers and space heaters, and that the facility had failed to apply for a Title V permit as required by Michigan law. We are fully cooperating with the DEQ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Edison Assembly Plant Concrete Disposal. During demolition of our Edison Assembly Plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. The concrete was crushed and reused as fill material at several different off site locations. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") now asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. We are fully cooperating with the DEP to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. CLASS ACTIONS The following are actions filed against us on behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly situated (i.e., purported class actions). In light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are limited to those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the Company, would likely involve a significant cost. Explorer Class Actions. A state court in Illinois certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1991 2001 Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone ATX or Wilderness tires who have not experienced any problems with either the tires or the vehicles (Rowan v. Ford Motor Company). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that the Firestone tires are defective. Plaintiffs claim that the value of the vehicles was diminished because of the alleged defects and seek unspecified actual and compensatory damages and other relief. Trial is anticipated in late 2006 or 2007. A state court in California certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1990 2000 Ford Explorers (Gray v. Ford Motor Company and four coordinated cases). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that Ford concealed information about them. Plaintiffs seek relief similar to that sought in Rowan. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. There are also 16 purported statewide class actions pending in several states, raising allegations similar to those raised in Rowan and in Gray, and seeking similar relief. Bridgestone Firestone, Inc. ("Firestone") was a co defendant in most of these cases, but settled all claims against it in these cases. The only remaining claims in these cases are based on the Explorers alleged rollover propensity. Paint Class Actions. A state court in Madison County, Illinois certified a nationwide class of owners of 1989 96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint peeling. Plaintiffs contend that their vehicles paint is defective in that there was a substantial risk of topcoat or clearcoat delamination, and that Ford failed to disclose that risk. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages (in an amount to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and to compensate for alleged diminution in value), punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. Crown Victoria Police Interceptor Class Actions. State courts in Illinois and Louisiana certified statewide classes of state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors. The complaints allege that the vehicles are defective in that fires can occur when the vehicles are struck in the rear at high speed, and seek modifications to the fuel systems and other relief, including punitive damages. Trial in the Illinois case during 2004 (St. Clair County v Ford Motor Company) resulted in a defense verdict on all counts submitted to the jury, from which plaintiffs have appealed; three counts remain pending for decision by the trial judge. Our appeal from the class certification order in Louisiana is pending. A class certification order granted in Florida in 2004 was reversed on appeal in April 2005. 25 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) There are also 12 purported statewide class actions pending in several states which claim to represent state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors, as well as six purported class actions relating to non police Crown Victoria vehicles. These suits raise allegations similar to those raised in St. Clair County, and seek similar relief. Hydroboost Truck Brake Class Action. A state court in Oklahoma certified a nationwide class of all purchasers of 1999 2002 F 250, F 350, F 450, and F 550 Ford Super Duty Trucks and 2002 Excursions with hydroboost hydraulic braking systems. The complaint alleges that these trucks are unsafe because they suffer diminished power assist to the steering when the driver is simultaneously braking and steering. The complaint alleges breach of warranty and fraud, and seeks the cost of retrofitting the trucks to eliminate the alleged danger, compensation for diminished resale value, and other amounts. NHTSA investigated a similar issue and closed the investigation, finding that "diminished steering assist while braking is present" in these trucks, but that the "associated injury and property damage incidents are so rare that they do not present a risk to vehicle safety." Trial is scheduled for 2007. OTHER MATTERS SEC Pension and Post Employment Benefit Accounting Inquiry. On October 14, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified us that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used to account for pensions and other post employment benefits. We are one of several companies to receive a request for information as part of this inquiry. We are cooperating with the SEC in providing the information requested. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not required. 26 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford Our executive officers and their positions and ages at March 1, 2006 are as follows: Name Position Present Position Held Since Age William Clay Ford, Jr. (a) Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer October 2001 48 James J. Padilla (b) President and Chief Operating Officer February 2005 59 Lewis W. K. Booth Executive Vice President Ford Europe and Premier Automotive Group and Chairman, Ford Europe, Jaguar and Land Rover October 2005 57 Mark Fields Executive Vice President President, The Americas October 2005 45 Donat R. Leclair, Jr. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer August 2003 54 Mark A. Schulz Executive Vice President President, International Automotive Operations October 2005 53 Anne L. Stevens Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer, The Americas November 2005 57 Michael E. Bannister Group Vice President Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Motor Credit Company April 2004 56 Francisco Codina Group Vice President North America Marketing, Sales and Service March 2006 54 John Fleming Group Vice President President and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Europe October 2005 55 Derrick M. Kuzak Group Vice President Product Development, The Americas November 2005 54 Joe W. Laymon Group Vice President Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs October 2003 53 J C. Mays Group Vice President Design, and Chief Creative Officer August 2003 51 Ziad S. Ojakli Group Vice President Corporate Affairs January 2004 38 Richard Parry Jones Group Vice President Global Product Development and Chief Technical Officer August 2001 54 David T. Szczupak Group Vice President Manufacturing, The Americas November 2005 50 David G. Leitch Senior Vice President and General Counsel April 2005 45 James C. Gouin Vice President and Controller August 2003 46 (a) Also Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee, and a member of the Finance Committee and of the Environmental and Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. (b) Also a member of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 27 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford (continued) All of the above officers, except those noted below, have been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. Described below are the recent positions (other than those with Ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with Ford or its subsidiaries for five years: Mr. Ojakli served as Principal Deputy for Legislative Affairs for President George W. Bush from December 2002 to 2003, and was Deputy Assistant to the President from 2001 to 2002. Prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the Policy Director and Chief of Staff to the Senate Republican Conference Secretary. Mr. Leitch served as the Deputy Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President George W. Bush from December 2002 to March 2005. From June 2001 until December 2002, he served as Chief Counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration, overseeing a staff of 290 in Washington and the agencys 11 regional offices. Prior to June 2001, Mr. Leitch was a partner at Hogan & Hartson LLP in Washington DC, where his practice focused on appellate litigation in state and federal court. Under our By Laws, the executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors held for this purpose. Each officer is elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the By Laws. PART II ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges in the United States and on certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The table below shows the high and low sales prices for our Common Stock and the dividends we paid per share of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in 2004 and 2005: 2004 2005 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Common Stock price per share* High $ 17.34 $ 16.48 $ 15.77 $ 15.00 $ 14.75 $ 11.69 $ 11.19 $ 10.00 Low 12.75 13.00 13.61 12.61 10.94 9.07 9.55 7.57 Dividends per share of Common and Class B Stock $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 * New York Stock Exchange composite interday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.NYSEnet.com. As of February 10, 2006, stockholders of record of Ford included 180,211 holders of Common Stock (which number does not include 6,448 former holders of old Ford Common Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which became effective on August 9, 2000) and 103 holders of Class B Stock. 28 ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (continued) During the fourth quarter of 2005, we purchased shares of our Common Stock as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased* Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs Oct. 1, 2005 through Oct. 31, 2005 2,289,994 $ 8.82 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Nov. 1, 2005 through Nov. 30, 2005 2,183,656 $ 8.15 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Dec. 1, 2005 through Dec. 31, 2005 2,494,720 $ 8.10 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Total 6,968,370 $ 8.35 0 * We currently do not have a publicly announced repurchase program in place. Of the 6,968,370 shares purchased, 6,954,640 shares were purchased from the Ford Motor Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried Employees ("SSIP") and the Tax Efficient Savings Plan for Hourly Employees ("TESPHE"). Shares are generally purchased from SSIP and TESPHE when participants in those plans elect to sell units in the Ford Stock Fund upon retirement, upon termination of employment with the Company, related to an in service distribution, or to fund a loan against an existing account balance in the Ford Stock Fund. Shares are not purchased from these plans when a participant transfers account balances out of the Ford Stock Fund and into another investment option under the plans. For the full year 2005, we purchased 25,823,410 shares on such basis from participants in SSIP and TESPHE. The remaining shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay income taxes with respect to: (i) the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock, (ii) the issuance of unrestricted stock, including issuances as a result of the conversion of restricted stock equivalents, or (iii) to pay the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises of stock options. 29 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial data concerning Ford for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts). Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Total Company Sales and revenues $ 177,089 $ 171,646 $ 164,331 $ 162,256 $ 160,652 Income/(loss) before income taxes $ 1,996 $ 4,853 $ 1,339 $ 1,064 $ (7,325 ) Provision/(credit) for income taxes (512 ) 938 123 342 (2,064 ) Minority interests in net income of subsidiaries 280 282 314 367 24 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 355 (5,285 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) (333 ) (168 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (251 ) (264 ) (1,002 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 $ (980 ) $ (5,453 ) Automotive sector Sales $ 153,503 $ 147,128 $ 138,253 $ 134,118 $ 130,599 Operating income/(loss) (4,209 ) (177 ) (1,556 ) (604 ) (7,471 ) Income/(loss) before income taxes (3,895 ) (155 ) (1,908 ) (1,054 ) (8,762 ) Financial Services sector Revenues $ 23,586 $ 24,518 $ 26,078 $ 28,138 $ 30,053 Income/(loss) before income taxes 5,891 5,008 3,247 2,118 1,437 Total Company Data Per Share of Common and Class B Stock Basic: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.21 $ 1.99 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.19 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.14 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.10 $ 1.91 $ 0.27 $ (0.55 ) $ (3.02 ) Diluted: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.14 $ 1.80 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued/held for sale operations 0.02 (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.18 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.11 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.05 $ 1.73 $ 0.27 $ (0.54 ) $ (3.02 ) Cash dividends $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 1.05 Common stock price range (NYSE Composite) High $ 14.75 $ 17.34 $ 17.33 $ 18.23 $ 31.42 Low 7.57 12.61 6.58 6.90 14.70 Average number of shares of Common and Class B stock outstanding (in millions) 1,846 1,830 1,832 1,819 1,820 SECTOR BALANCE SHEET DATA AT YEAR END Assets Automotive sector $ 113,829 $ 113,051 $ 111,230 $ 100,223 $ 88,150 Financial Services sector 162,194 189,100 195,482 187,606 188,345 Intersector elimination (83 ) (2,753 ) (3,356 ) (5,865 ) (4,650 ) Total assets $ 275,940 $ 299,398 $ 303,356 $ 281,964 $ 271,845 Long term Debt Automotive sector $ 16,900 $ 17,250 $ 18,758 $ 13,363 $ 13,467 Financial Services sector 104,119 113,992 126,336 124,970 124,050 Total long term debt $ 121,019 $ 131,242 $ 145,094 $ 138,333 $ 137,517 Stockholders Equity $ 12,957 $ 16,045 $ 11,651 $ 5,590 $ 7,786 30 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Generation of Revenue, Income and Cash Our Automotive sectors revenue, income and cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from such sales. Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealers purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealers obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays off the wholesale finance receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. Our Financial Services sectors revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest and operating expenses. Transactions between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue, and the Automotive sector makes the related cash payments, over the term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors. Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry Excess Capacity. According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2005 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 77 million units) significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about 62 million units). In North America and Europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 17% and 14%, respectively. According to production capacity data projected by CSM Worldwide, excess capacity conditions in North America could continue for several more years, but would be mitigated by the capacity reductions announced by us and General Motors Corporation when these planned reductions are completed. Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on manufacturers ability to increase prices on their products. In addition, the incremental new U.S. manufacturing capacity of foreign manufacturers (so called "transplants") in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure in that market. For example, in 2006, Toyota Motor Corporation is expected to complete construction of an assembly plant in Texas that reportedly will be capable of producing at least 200,000 full size pick up trucks per year. The reduction of real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the United States has become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to come. In Europe, the automotive industry also has experienced intense pricing pressure for several years for the same reasons discussed above, exacerbated in recent years by the Block Exemption Regulation discussed above in "Item 1. Business Automotive Sector." 31 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Consumer Spending Trends. We expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher end, more expensive vehicles and or vehicles with more features. Over the next decade, in the United States and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with GDP. The benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and Japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. We also expect that the North American market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. Health Care Expenses. In 2005, our health care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.5 billion, with about $2.4 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care. In 2005, prescription drugs continued to represent approximately one third of our total health care expense. Although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. For 2006, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs include an initial trend rate of 7%, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and appropriate employee cost sharing. Commodity and Energy Price Increases. Commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. In addition, energy prices increased significantly in 2005. In particular, gasoline prices in the United States increased in volatility and rose to levels well over $2.00 per gallon in 2005, and have remained at levels significantly higher than 2004. This has had an adverse effect on the demand for full and medium sized sport utility vehicles in the United States. Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. This created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo models) for sale in the United States and produce components in Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. Although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset reduces over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. We, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the United States, are not always able to price for depreciation of the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the United States. 32 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." A work stoppage for this or other reasons at Ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason (e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Single source supply of components or materials. Some components used in our vehicles (e.g., certain engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component. Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our agreement with the United Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2007) and our agreement with the Canadian Automobile Workers (which expires in September 2008) provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. These agreements may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency related improvements. Accordingly, these agreements may impede our ability to successfully implement and complete the Way Forward plan. For discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 18 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). We sponsor plans to provide postretirement pension, health care and life insurance benefits for our retired employees. The measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with these benefits requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). To the extent that actual results are less favorable than our assumptions there could be a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of these assumptions, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs. Meeting or exceeding many government mandated safety standards is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. Government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions. The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. In the United States and Europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. Many governments regulate local product content and or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. The cost of complying with these requirements may be substantial. Our ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and or are feature laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family size, luxury, and high performance cars and full size light trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and or increase market support programs for our most fuel efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. See "Item 1. Governmental Standards" for additional discussion. Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other standards. However, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. For example, the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law. Furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"). We have entered into a number of long term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. If our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take or pay contract. We also have entered into a small number of long term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. If our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a suppliers output of materials were to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need. Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. Recent lowering of credit ratings for Ford and Ford Credit has increased borrowing costs and caused Ford Credits access to the unsecured debt markets to become more restricted. In response, Ford Credit has increased its 19 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect Ford Credits ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. For additional discussion, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Higher than expected credit losses. Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customers or dealers failure to make payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credits business. The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations. For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Some of Ford Credits bank competitors in the United States have developed credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit is facing increased competition from banks on wholesale financing for Ford dealers. Competition from such competitors may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credits profitability and the volume of its business. Changes in interest rates. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credits interest rate risk exposure results principally from "re pricing risk, or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and or satisfy its customers. Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credits profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth in Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credits subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We believe that our ability to implement the Way Forward plan is very important to our future success. Any of the above or other factors that prevent us from executing the Way Forward plan ultimately could have a substantially adverse impact on our business. For additional discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments to report. ITEM 2. Properties Our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices and engineering centers. We own substantially all of our U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities. These facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, and transmission plants. Most of our distribution centers are leased (approximately 38% of our total square footage is owned). A substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third party providers under service contracts. Because the facilities provided pursuant to third party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. All of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. Substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. Approximately 92% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. In addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside the United States. We own substantially all of our non U.S. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. The majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the United States are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. As in the United States, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. The total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments are shown in the table below: Segment Plants Distribution Centers/Warehouses Engineering, Research/Development Sales Offices The Americas 61 33 41 38 Ford Europe and PAG 38 11 9 27 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 14 3 2 5 Total 113 47 52 70 Included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our Automotive sector. Following are the most significant of these consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants they own: AutoAlliance International ("AAI") a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda (of which we own approximately 33.4%), which operates as its principal business an automobile vehicle assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan. AAI currently produces the Mazda6 and Ford Mustang models. Ford supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to AAI, and AAI reimburses Ford for the full cost of that labor. Ford Otosan a joint venture in Turkey between Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey (41% partner) and public investors (18%) that is our single source supplier of the Ford Transit Connect vehicle and our sole distributor of Ford vehicles in Turkey. In addition, Ford Otosan makes the Ford Transit series and the Cargo truck for the Turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. This joint venture owns and operates two plants and a parts distribution depot in Turkey. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH and Co. KG, a German company, to which we transferred our European manual transmission operations in Halewood, England; Cologne, Germany; and Bordeaux, France. In 2004, Volvo Car Corporation ("Volvo Cars") agreed to transfer its manual transmission operations from its Kping, Sweden plant to this joint venture. The Getrag joint venture produces manual transmissions for our operations in Europe (Ford Europe and PAG). Ford currently supplies most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this Getrag joint venture. Ford employees who worked at the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture by Ford. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to the joint venture may return to Ford. Employees hired in the future to work in 21 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) these operations will be employed directly by the joint venture. Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH reimburses Ford for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor supplied by Ford. This joint venture operates three plants. Getrag All Wheel Drive AB a joint venture in Sweden between Getrag Dana Holding GmbH ("Getrag/Dana") (60% partner) and Volvo Cars (40% partner). In January 2004, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Getrag/Dana to transfer Volvo Cars plant in Kping, Sweden to this joint venture. The joint venture produces all wheel drive components and, for a time, chassis components as well. As noted above, the manual transmission operations at the Kping plant were transferred to Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH. The hourly and salaried employees at the plant have become employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR Cologne GmbH ("TEKFOR") a 50/50 joint venture of Ford Werke GmbH ("Ford Werke") together with Neumayer Tekfor GmbH, a German company, to which Ford Werke transferred the operations of the Ford forge in Cologne. The joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and chassis, for use in Ford vehicles and for sale to third parties. Those Ford employees who worked at the Cologne Forge Plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture are assigned to TEKFOR by Ford and remain Ford employees. In the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to TEKFOR may return to Ford. New workers at the joint venture will be hired as employees of the joint venture. TEKFOR reimburses Ford for the full cost of Ford employees assigned to the joint venture. This joint venture operates one plant. Pininfarina Sverige, AB a joint venture between Volvo Cars (40% partner) and Pininfarina, S.p.A. ("Pininfarina") (60% partner). In September 2003, Volvo Cars entered into agreements with Pininfarina to establish this joint venture for the engineering and manufacture of niche vehicles, starting with a new, small convertible. Volvo Cars has outsourced the design and engineering to Pininfarina. The joint venture began production of the new car at the Uddevalla Plant in Sweden, which was transferred from Volvo Cars to the joint venture in December 2005, and is the joint ventures only plant. Ford Vietnam Limited a joint venture between Ford (75% partner) and Song Cong Diesel (25% partner). Ford Vietnam assembles and distributes several Ford vehicles in Vietnam, including Escape, Everest, Focus, Mondeo, Ranger and Transit. This joint venture operates one plant. Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd. ("FLH") a joint venture in Taiwan among Ford (70% partner), the Lio Ho Group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of Ford and Mazda vehicles sourced from Ford as well as Mazda and Suzuki. In addition to domestic assembly, FLH also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports Ford brand built up vehicles from Europe and the United States. This joint venture operates one plant. In addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our Automotive sector are operated by other, unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. These additional plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. The most significant of these joint ventures are: AutoAlliance (Thailand) ("AAT") a joint venture among Ford (50%), Mazda (45%) and a Thai affiliate of Mazdas (5%), which owns and operates a manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand. AAT produces the Ford Everest, Ford Ranger and Mazda B Series pickup trucks for the Thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide (other than North America), in both built up and kit form. Blue Diamond Truck, S de RL de CV a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and International Truck and Engine Corporation (51% partner), a subsidiary of Navistar International Corporation ("Navistar"). Blue Diamond Truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford and Navistar for their own independent distribution. Blue Diamond Truck manufactures Ford F 650/750 medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in 22 ITEM 2. Properties (continued) the United States and Canada, and Navistar medium duty commercial trucks that are sold in Mexico. Production of a low cab forward, light /medium duty commercial truck for each of Ford and Navistar began in May 2005. Tenedora Nemak, S.A. de C.V. a joint venture between Ford (15% partner) and a subsidiary of Mexican conglomerate Alfa S.A. de C.V. (85% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, our former Canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. Ford supplies a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the Canadian plants, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("Changan Ford") a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Changan"). Through its facility in the Chinese city of Chongqing, Changan Ford produces and distributes in China the Ford Fiesta, Mondeo and Focus, and is planning to launch Mazda3 vehicles in 2006. In 2005, Changan Ford received approval from the Chinese government for the establishment of a new vehicle manufacturing plant in the Chinese city of Nanjing, which is now under construction. Changan Ford has also filed an application with the Chinese government to reorganize its current equity structure as follows: Changan 50%, Ford 35% and Mazda 15%. Upon completion of such equity reorganization, Changan Ford would change its corporate name to Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd. Changan Ford Mazda Engine Company, Ltd. ("CFME") a joint venture between Ford (25% partner), Mazda (25% partner) and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd (50% partner). CFME is located in the City of Nanjing, and will produce the Ford New I4 and Mazda BZ engines in support of the assembly of Ford and Mazda branded \ vehicles manufactured in China. Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. ("JMC") a publicly traded company in China with Ford (30% shareholder) and Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. and Jiangling Motors Company Group. The public investors of JMC own 29% of its outstanding shares. JMC assembles the Ford Transit van and other non Ford technology based vehicles for distribution in China. Ford Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. a joint venture between Ford (49% partner) and Tractors Malaysia, a publicly traded subsidiary of Sime Darby (51% partner). Ford Malaysia distributes Ford vehicles assembled by its wholly owned subsidiary Associated Motor Industries Malaysia, Sdn. Bhd., an assembly company, including Econovan, Escape, Everest, Laser and Ranger. The furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our Financial Services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. The facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings OVERVIEW Various legal actions, governmental investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted in the future against us and our subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental regulations covering safety, emissions and fuel economy; financial services; employment related matters; dealer, supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; shareholder and investor matters; and financial reporting matters. Some of the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very large expenditures. We regularly evaluate the expected outcome of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. We have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical litigation payouts and trends. We have also accrued expenses for other litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. These accruals are reflected in our financial statements. Following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: 23 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) PRODUCT LIABILITY MATTERS Asbestos Matters. Asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive components dating from the early 1900s. Along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with certain Ford parts and other products containing asbestos. Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. The majority of these cases have been filed in state courts. Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. In most of the asbestos litigation we are not the sole defendant. We believe we are being more aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. We are prepared to defend these asbestos related cases and, with respect to the cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long standing position that mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of asbestos related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate. The majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages, and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum. The vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. Many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and we are often unable to tell from the pleadings which of the plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). Our annual payout and related defense costs in asbestos cases had been increasing between 1999 and 2003. In 2005, these costs were about the same as in 2003 and 2004; however, they may become substantial in the future. The United States Congress continues to consider proposals to reform asbestos litigation. The leading proposal would create a trust fund from which eligible asbestos claimants would be compensated and would preclude, during the life of the trust, litigation in the United States based on exposure to asbestos. The trust fund would be funded by asbestos defendants (including us) and the insurance industry. These funds would be used to pay eligible claimants (i.e., those who satisfy specific medical criteria and can adequately demonstrate occupational exposure to asbestos) according to a specified schedule. If legislation is enacted creating such a trust fund, we would likely be required to make substantial contributions to the fund over a specified period of time, resulting in our incurring a charge in the amount of the present value of such anticipated contributions in the period in which the legislation becomes effective. We cannot predict whether or in what form the legislation will be enacted or the costs associated with such enactment. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS General. We have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. We also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. The amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be substantial. The contingent losses that we expect to incur in connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, for many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration, and success of remediation). As a result, we are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible in connection with these sites, although that total could be substantial. 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) St. Louis Assembly Plant Enforcement Action. In 2005, the Department of Justice ("DOJ") advised us that the EPA had referred to it for civil enforcement a matter regarding refrigerants used in several types of process equipment at our St. Louis Assembly Plant. The referral is based on the EPAs belief that the plant did not comply with all of the Clean Air Acts recordkeeping, testing, and repair requirements related to process equipment with regulated refrigerants. We are fully cooperating with the DOJ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Woodhaven Stamping Plant Letter of Violation. In 2005, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") issued a letter of violation to Fords Woodhaven Stamping Plant alleging that the facility had failed to properly report emissions from boilers and space heaters, and that the facility had failed to apply for a Title V permit as required by Michigan law. We are fully cooperating with the DEQ to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. Edison Assembly Plant Concrete Disposal. During demolition of our Edison Assembly Plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. The concrete was crushed and reused as fill material at several different off site locations. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") now asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. We are fully cooperating with the DEP to resolve this matter, and continue to negotiate a resolution. CLASS ACTIONS The following are actions filed against us on behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly situated (i.e., purported class actions). In light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are limited to those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the Company, would likely involve a significant cost. Explorer Class Actions. A state court in Illinois certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1991 2001 Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone ATX or Wilderness tires who have not experienced any problems with either the tires or the vehicles (Rowan v. Ford Motor Company). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that the Firestone tires are defective. Plaintiffs claim that the value of the vehicles was diminished because of the alleged defects and seek unspecified actual and compensatory damages and other relief. Trial is anticipated in late 2006 or 2007. A state court in California certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1990 2000 Ford Explorers (Gray v. Ford Motor Company and four coordinated cases). The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable and that Ford concealed information about them. Plaintiffs seek relief similar to that sought in Rowan. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. There are also 16 purported statewide class actions pending in several states, raising allegations similar to those raised in Rowan and in Gray, and seeking similar relief. Bridgestone Firestone, Inc. ("Firestone") was a co defendant in most of these cases, but settled all claims against it in these cases. The only remaining claims in these cases are based on the Explorers alleged rollover propensity. Paint Class Actions. A state court in Madison County, Illinois certified a nationwide class of owners of 1989 96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint peeling. Plaintiffs contend that their vehicles paint is defective in that there was a substantial risk of topcoat or clearcoat delamination, and that Ford failed to disclose that risk. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages (in an amount to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and to compensate for alleged diminution in value), punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. Trial is scheduled for late 2006. Crown Victoria Police Interceptor Class Actions. State courts in Illinois and Louisiana certified statewide classes of state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors. The complaints allege that the vehicles are defective in that fires can occur when the vehicles are struck in the rear at high speed, and seek modifications to the fuel systems and other relief, including punitive damages. Trial in the Illinois case during 2004 (St. Clair County v Ford Motor Company) resulted in a defense verdict on all counts submitted to the jury, from which plaintiffs have appealed; three counts remain pending for decision by the trial judge. Our appeal from the class certification order in Louisiana is pending. A class certification order granted in Florida in 2004 was reversed on appeal in April 2005. 25 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings (continued) There are also 12 purported statewide class actions pending in several states which claim to represent state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria Police Interceptors, as well as six purported class actions relating to non police Crown Victoria vehicles. These suits raise allegations similar to those raised in St. Clair County, and seek similar relief. Hydroboost Truck Brake Class Action. A state court in Oklahoma certified a nationwide class of all purchasers of 1999 2002 F 250, F 350, F 450, and F 550 Ford Super Duty Trucks and 2002 Excursions with hydroboost hydraulic braking systems. The complaint alleges that these trucks are unsafe because they suffer diminished power assist to the steering when the driver is simultaneously braking and steering. The complaint alleges breach of warranty and fraud, and seeks the cost of retrofitting the trucks to eliminate the alleged danger, compensation for diminished resale value, and other amounts. NHTSA investigated a similar issue and closed the investigation, finding that "diminished steering assist while braking is present" in these trucks, but that the "associated injury and property damage incidents are so rare that they do not present a risk to vehicle safety." Trial is scheduled for 2007. OTHER MATTERS SEC Pension and Post Employment Benefit Accounting Inquiry. On October 14, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified us that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used to account for pensions and other post employment benefits. We are one of several companies to receive a request for information as part of this inquiry. We are cooperating with the SEC in providing the information requested. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not required. 26 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford Our executive officers and their positions and ages at March 1, 2006 are as follows: Name Position Present Position Held Since Age William Clay Ford, Jr. (a) Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer October 2001 48 James J. Padilla (b) President and Chief Operating Officer February 2005 59 Lewis W. K. Booth Executive Vice President Ford Europe and Premier Automotive Group and Chairman, Ford Europe, Jaguar and Land Rover October 2005 57 Mark Fields Executive Vice President President, The Americas October 2005 45 Donat R. Leclair, Jr. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer August 2003 54 Mark A. Schulz Executive Vice President President, International Automotive Operations October 2005 53 Anne L. Stevens Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer, The Americas November 2005 57 Michael E. Bannister Group Vice President Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Motor Credit Company April 2004 56 Francisco Codina Group Vice President North America Marketing, Sales and Service March 2006 54 John Fleming Group Vice President President and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Europe October 2005 55 Derrick M. Kuzak Group Vice President Product Development, The Americas November 2005 54 Joe W. Laymon Group Vice President Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs October 2003 53 J C. Mays Group Vice President Design, and Chief Creative Officer August 2003 51 Ziad S. Ojakli Group Vice President Corporate Affairs January 2004 38 Richard Parry Jones Group Vice President Global Product Development and Chief Technical Officer August 2001 54 David T. Szczupak Group Vice President Manufacturing, The Americas November 2005 50 David G. Leitch Senior Vice President and General Counsel April 2005 45 James C. Gouin Vice President and Controller August 2003 46 (a) Also Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee, and a member of the Finance Committee and of the Environmental and Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. (b) Also a member of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 27 ITEM 4A. Executive Officers of Ford (continued) All of the above officers, except those noted below, have been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. Described below are the recent positions (other than those with Ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with Ford or its subsidiaries for five years: Mr. Ojakli served as Principal Deputy for Legislative Affairs for President George W. Bush from December 2002 to 2003, and was Deputy Assistant to the President from 2001 to 2002. Prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the Policy Director and Chief of Staff to the Senate Republican Conference Secretary. Mr. Leitch served as the Deputy Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President George W. Bush from December 2002 to March 2005. From June 2001 until December 2002, he served as Chief Counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration, overseeing a staff of 290 in Washington and the agencys 11 regional offices. Prior to June 2001, Mr. Leitch was a partner at Hogan & Hartson LLP in Washington DC, where his practice focused on appellate litigation in state and federal court. Under our By Laws, the executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors held for this purpose. Each officer is elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the By Laws. PART II ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges in the United States and on certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The table below shows the high and low sales prices for our Common Stock and the dividends we paid per share of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in 2004 and 2005: 2004 2005 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Common Stock price per share* High $ 17.34 $ 16.48 $ 15.77 $ 15.00 $ 14.75 $ 11.69 $ 11.19 $ 10.00 Low 12.75 13.00 13.61 12.61 10.94 9.07 9.55 7.57 Dividends per share of Common and Class B Stock $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 * New York Stock Exchange composite interday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.NYSEnet.com. As of February 10, 2006, stockholders of record of Ford included 180,211 holders of Common Stock (which number does not include 6,448 former holders of old Ford Common Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which became effective on August 9, 2000) and 103 holders of Class B Stock. 28 ITEM 5. Market for Fords Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (continued) During the fourth quarter of 2005, we purchased shares of our Common Stock as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased* Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs Oct. 1, 2005 through Oct. 31, 2005 2,289,994 $ 8.82 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Nov. 1, 2005 through Nov. 30, 2005 2,183,656 $ 8.15 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Dec. 1, 2005 through Dec. 31, 2005 2,494,720 $ 8.10 0 No publicly announced repurchase program in place Total 6,968,370 $ 8.35 0 * We currently do not have a publicly announced repurchase program in place. Of the 6,968,370 shares purchased, 6,954,640 shares were purchased from the Ford Motor Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried Employees ("SSIP") and the Tax Efficient Savings Plan for Hourly Employees ("TESPHE"). Shares are generally purchased from SSIP and TESPHE when participants in those plans elect to sell units in the Ford Stock Fund upon retirement, upon termination of employment with the Company, related to an in service distribution, or to fund a loan against an existing account balance in the Ford Stock Fund. Shares are not purchased from these plans when a participant transfers account balances out of the Ford Stock Fund and into another investment option under the plans. For the full year 2005, we purchased 25,823,410 shares on such basis from participants in SSIP and TESPHE. The remaining shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay income taxes with respect to: (i) the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock, (ii) the issuance of unrestricted stock, including issuances as a result of the conversion of restricted stock equivalents, or (iii) to pay the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises of stock options. 29 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial data concerning Ford for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts). Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Total Company Sales and revenues $ 177,089 $ 171,646 $ 164,331 $ 162,256 $ 160,652 Income/(loss) before income taxes $ 1,996 $ 4,853 $ 1,339 $ 1,064 $ (7,325 ) Provision/(credit) for income taxes (512 ) 938 123 342 (2,064 ) Minority interests in net income of subsidiaries 280 282 314 367 24 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 355 (5,285 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) (333 ) (168 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (251 ) (264 ) (1,002 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 $ (980 ) $ (5,453 ) Automotive sector Sales $ 153,503 $ 147,128 $ 138,253 $ 134,118 $ 130,599 Operating income/(loss) (4,209 ) (177 ) (1,556 ) (604 ) (7,471 ) Income/(loss) before income taxes (3,895 ) (155 ) (1,908 ) (1,054 ) (8,762 ) Financial Services sector Revenues $ 23,586 $ 24,518 $ 26,078 $ 28,138 $ 30,053 Income/(loss) before income taxes 5,891 5,008 3,247 2,118 1,437 Total Company Data Per Share of Common and Class B Stock Basic: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.21 $ 1.99 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.19 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.14 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.10 $ 1.91 $ 0.27 $ (0.55 ) $ (3.02 ) Diluted: Income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.14 $ 1.80 $ 0.49 $ 0.19 $ (2.93 ) Income/(loss) from discontinued/held for sale operations 0.02 (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.18 ) (0.09 ) Cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.11 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) Net income/(loss) $ 1.05 $ 1.73 $ 0.27 $ (0.54 ) $ (3.02 ) Cash dividends $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 1.05 Common stock price range (NYSE Composite) High $ 14.75 $ 17.34 $ 17.33 $ 18.23 $ 31.42 Low 7.57 12.61 6.58 6.90 14.70 Average number of shares of Common and Class B stock outstanding (in millions) 1,846 1,830 1,832 1,819 1,820 SECTOR BALANCE SHEET DATA AT YEAR END Assets Automotive sector $ 113,829 $ 113,051 $ 111,230 $ 100,223 $ 88,150 Financial Services sector 162,194 189,100 195,482 187,606 188,345 Intersector elimination (83 ) (2,753 ) (3,356 ) (5,865 ) (4,650 ) Total assets $ 275,940 $ 299,398 $ 303,356 $ 281,964 $ 271,845 Long term Debt Automotive sector $ 16,900 $ 17,250 $ 18,758 $ 13,363 $ 13,467 Financial Services sector 104,119 113,992 126,336 124,970 124,050 Total long term debt $ 121,019 $ 131,242 $ 145,094 $ 138,333 $ 137,517 Stockholders Equity $ 12,957 $ 16,045 $ 11,651 $ 5,590 $ 7,786 30 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Generation of Revenue, Income and Cash Our Automotive sectors revenue, income and cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from such sales. Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealers purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealers obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays off the wholesale finance receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. Our Financial Services sectors revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest and operating expenses. Transactions between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue, and the Automotive sector makes the related cash payments, over the term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors. Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry Excess Capacity. According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2005 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 77 million units) significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about 62 million units). In North America and Europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 17% and 14%, respectively. According to production capacity data projected by CSM Worldwide, excess capacity conditions in North America could continue for several more years, but would be mitigated by the capacity reductions announced by us and General Motors Corporation when these planned reductions are completed. Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on manufacturers ability to increase prices on their products. In addition, the incremental new U.S. manufacturing capacity of foreign manufacturers (so called "transplants") in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure in that market. For example, in 2006, Toyota Motor Corporation is expected to complete construction of an assembly plant in Texas that reportedly will be capable of producing at least 200,000 full size pick up trucks per year. The reduction of real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the United States has become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to come. In Europe, the automotive industry also has experienced intense pricing pressure for several years for the same reasons discussed above, exacerbated in recent years by the Block Exemption Regulation discussed above in "Item 1. Business Automotive Sector." 31 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Consumer Spending Trends. We expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher end, more expensive vehicles and or vehicles with more features. Over the next decade, in the United States and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with GDP. The benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and Japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. We also expect that the North American market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. Health Care Expenses. In 2005, our health care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.5 billion, with about $2.4 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care. In 2005, prescription drugs continued to represent approximately one third of our total health care expense. Although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. For 2006, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs include an initial trend rate of 7%, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and appropriate employee cost sharing. Commodity and Energy Price Increases. Commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. In addition, energy prices increased significantly in 2005. In particular, gasoline prices in the United States increased in volatility and rose to levels well over $2.00 per gallon in 2005, and have remained at levels significantly higher than 2004. This has had an adverse effect on the demand for full and medium sized sport utility vehicles in the United States. Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. This created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo models) for sale in the United States and produce components in Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. Although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset reduces over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. We, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the United States, are not always able to price for depreciation of the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the United States. 32 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Generation of Revenue, Income and Cash Our Automotive sectors revenue, income and cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from such sales. Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealers purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealers obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays off the wholesale finance receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. Our Financial Services sectors revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest and operating expenses. Transactions between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue, and the Automotive sector makes the related cash payments, over the term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between the Automotive and Financial Services sectors. Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry Excess Capacity. According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2005 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 77 million units) significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about 62 million units). In North America and Europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 17% and 14%, respectively. According to production capacity data projected by CSM Worldwide, excess capacity conditions in North America could continue for several more years, but would be mitigated by the capacity reductions announced by us and General Motors Corporation when these planned reductions are completed. Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on manufacturers ability to increase prices on their products. In addition, the incremental new U.S. manufacturing capacity of foreign manufacturers (so called "transplants") in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure in that market. For example, in 2006, Toyota Motor Corporation is expected to complete construction of an assembly plant in Texas that reportedly will be capable of producing at least 200,000 full size pick up trucks per year. The reduction of real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the United States has become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to come. In Europe, the automotive industry also has experienced intense pricing pressure for several years for the same reasons discussed above, exacerbated in recent years by the Block Exemption Regulation discussed above in "Item 1. Business Automotive Sector." 31 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Consumer Spending Trends. We expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher end, more expensive vehicles and or vehicles with more features. Over the next decade, in the United States and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with GDP. The benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and Japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. We also expect that the North American market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. Health Care Expenses. In 2005, our health care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.5 billion, with about $2.4 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care. In 2005, prescription drugs continued to represent approximately one third of our total health care expense. Although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. For 2006, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs include an initial trend rate of 7%, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and appropriate employee cost sharing. Commodity and Energy Price Increases. Commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. In addition, energy prices increased significantly in 2005. In particular, gasoline prices in the United States increased in volatility and rose to levels well over $2.00 per gallon in 2005, and have remained at levels significantly higher than 2004. This has had an adverse effect on the demand for full and medium sized sport utility vehicles in the United States. Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. This created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo models) for sale in the United States and produce components in Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. Although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset reduces over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. We, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the United States, are not always able to price for depreciation of the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the United States. 32 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Consumer Spending Trends. We expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher end, more expensive vehicles and or vehicles with more features. Over the next decade, in the United States and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with GDP. The benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and Japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. We also expect that the North American market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. Health Care Expenses. In 2005, our health care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.5 billion, with about $2.4 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care. In 2005, prescription drugs continued to represent approximately one third of our total health care expense. Although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. For 2006, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs include an initial trend rate of 7%, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and appropriate employee cost sharing. Commodity and Energy Price Increases. Commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. In addition, energy prices increased significantly in 2005. In particular, gasoline prices in the United States increased in volatility and rose to levels well over $2.00 per gallon in 2005, and have remained at levels significantly higher than 2004. This has had an adverse effect on the demand for full and medium sized sport utility vehicles in the United States. Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. This created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo models) for sale in the United States and produce components in Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. Although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset reduces over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. We, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the United States, are not always able to price for depreciation of the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the United States. 32 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Trends and Strategies the Way Forward Plan The global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will accelerate into the future. Anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in North America for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products. Presently, there are about 255 different nameplates being offered in the United States, compared with 215 in 2002 and a projected 300 or more by 2010. In order to stabilize and grow our U.S. market share in this increasingly competitive environment and generally improve our business, we are implementing a business improvement plan for our North American automotive operations that we refer to as our Way Forward plan. This plan focuses on the following key areas: renewed customer focus and brand differentiation, commitment to innovation, clear pricing, and cost reductions. Customer Focus and Brand Differentiation To compete more effectively in todays global marketplace, a sharpened customer focus is essential. Toward that end, we have developed a new customer segmentation model using a proprietary large scale quantitative survey to better understand the values and attitudes in the U.S. marketplace. This model focuses on values and attitudes that drive purchase behaviors and that cross traditional demographic lines of age, lifestage, gender and cultural identity. Using this new segmentation model, we selected target customer segments for our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands. These target customer segments will provide a sharper focus for our business, and we will use this focus to ensure all aspects of our business will be aligned to satisfy our customers current needs and anticipate their future needs. To effectively leverage our global resources, we must focus on differentiating our brand identities, especially within the crowded North American marketplace. Going forward, we intend to have clear and distinct identities for our brands. Our Ford brand in the United States stands for bold American design that exudes strength and progress; a number of our products already reflect that design philosophy, including our award winning Mustang, F Series, and Fusion models. We plan to continue this brand philosophy in future Ford brand models, such as the new Ford Edge crossover vehicle. Mercury appeals to consumers with different values and attitudes, and brings conquest purchasers to us. Our strategy for the Mercury brand is to create vehicles that offer modern, expressive design for the American consumer, while maintaining common product functionality with the Ford brand. The Mercury Mariner and Mercury Milan are examples of products delivering the intended brand identity and product functionality. Our strategy for Lincoln is to appeal to self made American consumers who are achieving their dreams, by offering these consumers refined and dynamic vehicle design, smooth power on demand, and a personalized environment. The Lincoln Zephyr and Lincoln Navigator are examples of products delivering this brand identity today, and this brand philosophy will be continued in future products, such as the new Lincoln MKX crossover vehicle. Innovation Initiative To continue delivering the cutting edge technology consumers desire, we also are rededicating ourselves to driving innovation through our entire business, beginning with the way we analyze the marketplace, develop and produce products, and continuing through the sales and service channels. Our innovation initiative demands creative and original thinking, implemented through a disciplined process, throughout our global operations, which we can then maximize through global synergies in order to create more new products and features, more flexible plants, more common processes and economies of scale to deliver more new product faster to all of our markets and for all of our brands. Our strategy is to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace through design innovation, safety innovation, and new environmentally friendly technologies. Clear Pricing We began introducing clear, simple pricing two years ago with the introduction of the new Mustang, and have continued this strategy with new models such as the Ford Fusion, Mercury Milan and Lincoln Zephyr. These vehicles are proving that well priced products with great appeal can reduce our reliance on incentives. Our plan is to extend this strategy to all of our vehicles over time. This is a key component of communicating our brand philosophy to our customers through bold styling and clear, simple pricing. Ford will continue this approach of bringing sticker prices in line with actual transaction prices by reducing rebates over time as we introduce new models into the marketplace. Our customers will benefit from a simpler purchase experience and improved residual values and cost of ownership. 33 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Cost Savings To improve our business and profitability, we plan to reduce our costs through material cost actions, health care cost reductions, and capacity and personnel reductions. Material Cost Actions. During 2005, we announced an initiative to enter into new long term agreements with select strategic suppliers globally in order to strengthen collaboration and develop a sustainable business model to drive mutual profitability and technology development. This new Aligned Business Framework is expected to establish closer relationships with a smaller number of suppliers, reducing by approximately 50 percent the number of suppliers to whom we source new business for 20 high impact component systems. These systems, including seats, wiring, restraint systems, and instrument and trim panels, represent about half of our annual production purchases globally. In addition, we have established cross functional component systems teams with common objectives and processes to establish component systems business plans with the goal of further reducing material costs. With these actions, we are targeting net material cost reductions excluding special items of at least $6 billion by 2010 at constant volume, mix and exchange, net of new product content and regulatory changes. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8 K dated October 1, 2005, we also finalized an agreement with Visteon Corporation ("Visteon"), our largest supplier, in which we assumed control of 17 plants and six other facilities in the United States and Mexico. These assets were transferred to Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), a temporary business controlled and managed by us, to protect the flow of critical parts and components in the near term and, over time, to improve our sourcing flexibility and cost competitiveness. ACHs mission is to prepare most of the acquired businesses for sale to companies with the capital and expertise to supply us with high quality components and systems at competitive prices. As we prepare these businesses for sale, we also are taking actions to reduce hourly employment at ACH by approximately 5,000 positions, primarily through buyouts. Health Care Cost Reductions. Effective January 1, 2007 for U.S. salaried employees hired before June 1, 2001, we established a company contribution limit set at 2006 levels for retiree health care benefits (U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 participate in a defined contribution retiree health care plan). In addition, for U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 who retire on or after June 1, 2006, company paid retiree life insurance benefits are limited to $50,000 (employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 do not receive company paid retiree life insurance benefits). These benefit changes resulted in a decrease in the year end 2005 other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") obligation of about $3 billion and a reduction in 2006 and ongoing expense of about $400 million annually. The related cash savings will grow over time. In December 2005, we reached an agreement with the UAW that would increase retiree health care cost sharing. As part of the agreement, an independent defined contribution Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust would be established for the purpose of mitigating the financial impact of increased cost sharing to retirees. This trust would be funded primarily through (i) wage diversions from active hourly employees, (ii) specified cash contributions aggregating $108 million to be made by us over several years, and (iii) potential cash contributions to be made by us based on any price appreciation above $8.145 per share of a notional amount of 8,750,000 shares of Ford Common Stock. The agreement is subject to court approval of a proposed settlement of a purported class action challenging our decision to modify the retiree health care plan; additional retirees have expressed their objection to the agreement by moving to intervene in the pending lawsuit and filing a follow on suit of their own. If the settlement of the purported class action receives court approval, the agreement is expected to reduce our OPEB obligation by about $5 billion, with projected average annual cost savings of about $650 million and reduced average annual cash outlays of about $200 million. Capacity and Personnel Reductions. Our North American operations presently have the capacity to support a U.S. market share significantly in excess of the 17% share our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands achieved in 2005. As a result, our plant utilization rate in North America has been about 75%, which is not sustainable. Given the continued proliferation of new model offerings by current and potential participants in the U.S. automotive market, we recognize the need to match our North American production capacity to realistic volume and market share expectations. Accordingly, we plan to idle and cease operations at 14 manufacturing facilities in North America by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants. Associated with these plant idlings, we intend to reduce our manufacturing employment by 25,000 to 30,000 people during the same period. These personnel reductions do not include actions at ACH, and are in addition to the previously announced reduction of the equivalent of 4,000 salaried positions by the end of the first quarter of 2006, as well as a reduction in our officer ranks by 12 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2006. The first facility to be idled pursuant to the Way Forward plan will be our St. Louis Assembly Plant, which is targeted to cease production by the end of the first quarter of 2006. Further, we have announced plans to idle the following facilities through 2008: Atlanta Assembly Plant, Wixom Assembly Plant, Batavia Transmission Plant, Windsor Casting Plant, and two additional assembly plants to be determined later this year. In addition, production at our St. Thomas Assembly Plant will be reduced to one shift. These 34 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) actions should reduce our North American assembly capacity by 1.2 million units or 26% and help improve our assembly capacity utilization rate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to current year presentation. FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our worldwide net income was $2.0 billion or $1.05 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2005, down $1.5 billion from a profit of $3.5 billion or $1.73 per share in 2004. Results by business sector for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Income/(loss) before income taxes Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) Financial Services sector 5,891 5,008 3,247 Total Company 1,996 4,853 1,339 Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (512 ) 938 123 Minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 280 282 314 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 2,228 3,633 902 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations 47 (146 ) (143 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) (264 ) Net income/(loss) $ 2,024 $ 3,487 $ 495 (a) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding 2005 effective tax rate. (b) Primarily related to Ford Europes consolidated less than 100% owned affiliates. (c) See Notes 17 and 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Included in Income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ("special items"). The following table details the 2005, 2004, and 2003 special items by business unit (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Automotive Sector Ford North America Visteon related charges * $ (468 ) $ (600 ) $ (1,597 ) Personnel reduction programs (401 ) Fuel cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) Changes in state non income tax law 85 Divestiture of non core business (Beanstalk Group, LLC) (59 ) Ford Europe Personnel reduction programs (510 ) (49 ) (513 ) Premier Automotive Group ("PAG") Jaguar/Land Rover impairment (1,300 ) Personnel reduction programs (245 ) (110 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa Divestiture of non core business (certain Australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) Personnel reduction programs (33 ) Other Automotive Divestiture of non core businesses (primarily related to Kwik Fit Group Limited) 152 17 49 Total Automotive sector (2,881 ) (1,005 ) (2,061 ) Financial Services Sector Divestiture of non core business (The Hertz Corporation ("Hertz")) 1,499 Property clean up settlement 45 Total $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) $ (2,061 ) * See Notes 4 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of Visteon related charges. 35 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/ (Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ (2,500 ) $ 684 $ (3,184 ) Ford South America 389 140 249 Total The Americas (2,111 ) 824 (2,935 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe (381 ) 65 (446 ) PAG (1,645 ) (850 ) (795 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (2,026 ) (785 ) (1,241 ) Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa 42 (36 ) 78 Mazda and Associated Operations 255 118 137 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 297 82 215 Other Automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 Total Automotive sector $ (3,895 ) $ (155 ) $ (3,740 ) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 The Americas Ford North America $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,443 3,623 (180 ) (5 )% Ford South America 4.3 3.0 1.3 43 336 292 44 15 Total The Americas 84.9 86.0 (1.1 ) (1 ) 3,779 3,915 (136 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 30.0 26.5 3.5 13 1,785 1,705 80 5 PAG 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 757 771 (14 ) (2 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG 60.3 54.1 6.2 11 2,542 2,476 66 3 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 465 407 58 14 Mazda and Associated Operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 497 407 90 22 Total Automotive sector $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 6,818 6,798 20 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. 2005 vehicle unit sales include about 50,000 units transferred to Hertz which were still being used in Hertz operations as of the date we sold Hertz; "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. (c) Reflects sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI"), beginning with the consolidation of AAI in the third quarter of 2005. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 36 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 U.S. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 ) pts. 733 794 (61 ) Brazil (b) 12.4 11.8 0.6 18 19 (1 ) Europe (b) (c) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.2/2.3 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/0 45/69 41/68 4/1 Australia (b) 13.1 14.2 (1.1 ) 18 19 (1 ) (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based, in part, on estimated 2005 vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The decline in results reflected losses at our Ford North America business unit, an impairment charge for long lived assets of Jaguar/Land Rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by more favorable market performance at Land Rover and improved results of our Ford South America business unit, Other Automotive, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The table below details our 2005 cost performance (in billions): Explanation of Cost Performance 2005 Costs* Better/(Worse) than 2004 Net product costs New product and commodities related cost increases, offset partially by pricing reductions from our suppliers and design cost reductions on existing products. $ (1.0) Pension and health care Primarily the effect of lower discount rates (0.8) Quality related WWarranty performance on prior model year vehicles, offset partially by cost recoveries from suppliers ((((including Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization Primarily related to investments for new vehicles and acceleration of depreciation in a number of our operations. (0.3) Overhead Primarily reductions in salaried personnel. 0.3 Manufacturing and engineering Primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and ongoing efficiencies in our plants. 0.9 Total $ (1.3) * At constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items and discontinued operations. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The decline in results primarily reflected unfavorable cost performance, lower U.S. market share, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. Unfavorable cost performance primarily reflected higher warranty and material costs. Ford South America. The increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing in excess of higher commodity costs, higher vehicle unit sales and favorable currency exchange. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel reduction programs, negative net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost performance and exchange. 37 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) PAG. The decline in results primarily reflected an impairment charge for long lived assets of the Jaguar/Land Rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new Land Rover products, and favorable cost performance. For additional discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in China and charges for personnel reduction programs. Mazda and Associated Operations. The increase in earnings primarily reflected gains on our investment in Mazda convertible bonds and improved Mazda operating results. In the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our Mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, expect diminished income effects in future periods from mark to market adjustments for these bonds. Other Automotive The improvement primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). 2004 Compared with 2003 Details by Automotive business unit of Income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 684 $ 196 $ 488 Ford South America 140 (129 ) 269 Total The Americas 824 67 757 Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 65 (1,620 ) 1,685 PAG (850 ) 171 (1,021 ) Total Ford Europe and PAG (785 ) (1,449 ) 664 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (36 ) (23 ) (13 ) Mazda and Associated Operations 118 69 49 Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 82 46 36 Other Automotive (276 ) (572 ) 296 Total Automotive sector $ (155 ) $ (1,908 ) $ 1,753 38 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Sales (in billions) Vehicle Unit Sales (a) (in thousands) 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 The Americas Ford North America $ 83.0 $ 83.6 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% 3,623 3,810 (187 ) (5 )% Ford South America 3.0 1.9 1.1 58 292 210 82 39 Total The Americas 86.0 85.5 0.5 1 3,915 4,020 (105 ) (3 ) Ford Europe and PAG Ford Europe 26.5 22.2 4.3 19 1,705 1,609 96 6 PAG 27.6 24.8 2.8 11 771 754 17 2 Total Ford Europe and PAG 54.1 47.0 7.1 15 2,476 2,363 113 5 Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Ford Asia Pacific and Africa (b) 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Mazda and Associated Operations Total Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda 7.0 5.8 1.2 21 407 353 54 15 Other Automotive Total Automotive sector $ 147.1 $ 138.3 $ 8.8 6 6,798 6,736 62 1 (a) Vehicle unit sales generally are reported on a where sold basis, and include sales of all Ford badged units and units manufactured by Ford and sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are returned to us pursuant to a guaranteed repurchase option and vehicles used in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles) are included in vehicle unit sales at the time they are disposed of by us through used car channels. (b) Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia Pacific and Africa are Ford badged vehicles sold in China and Malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 66,000 and 34,000 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively. "Sales" above does not include revenue from these units. Details of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below: Dealer Owned Stocks (a) Market Share (in thousands) Market 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 U.S. (b) 18.0 % 19.2 % (1.2 ) pts. 794 791 3 Brazil (b) 11.8 11.5 0.3 19 12 7 Europe (b) (c) 8.7 8.6 0.1 356 403 (47 ) PAG U.S./Europe (c) 1.3/2.3 1.3/2.1 0/ 0.2 41/68 47/59 (6)/9 Australia (b) 14.2 13.9 0.3 19 18 1 (a) Dealer owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) Includes only Ford and, in the United States, Lincoln and Mercury brands. (c) European market share is based on vehicle registrations for our 19 major European markets. Overall Automotive Sector The improvement in Income/(loss) before income taxes primarily reflected lower Visteon related charges, higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable effect of tax related interest on refunds and settlements of prior year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. The Americas Segment Ford North America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. In addition, the improvement in earnings reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance, offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar) and a charge of $182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power Systems Inc., a provider of fuel cell technology. 39 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Ford South America. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by higher commodity costs. Ford Europe and PAG Segment Ford Europe. The improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in Turkey. PAG. The increased loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing. Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda Segment Ford Asia Pacific and Africa. The decline in earnings reflected a charge related to the disposition of certain dealerships, offset partially by favorable changes in exchange rates and higher vehicle unit sales. Mazda and Associated Operations. The change primarily reflected improvements in our Mazda related investments. Other Automotive The improvement in results primarily reflected higher tax related interest on refund claims and the favorable effect on interest expense of the settlements in 2004 of prior year federal and state tax audits and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II. FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 Compared with 2004 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Ford Credit $ 3,861 $ 4,431 $ (570 ) Hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 Other Financial Services operating results (39 ) 84 (123 ) Gain on sale of Hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,891 $ 5,008 $ 883 (a) Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. (b) The segment presentation of the gain on sale of Hertz in Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements is $1,006 million in the Hertz segment and $89 million in Other Financial Services. Ford Credit Ford Credits income before income taxes was down $570 million. The decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. Ford Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: On balance sheet basis. Includes the receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal purposes that remain on Ford Credits balance sheet; 40 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Securitized off balance sheet basis. Includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet; Managed basis. Includes on balance sheet and securitized off balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to service; and Serviced basis. Includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on an on balance sheet and managed basis. It retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. Ford Credits operating results are impacted significantly by the level of its receivables, which are shown below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 On Balance Sheet (including on balance sheet securitizations) Finance receivables Retail installment $ 65.7 $ 81.7 Wholesale 39.6 23.8 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 109.9 110.8 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total on balance sheet* $ 132.1 $ 132.7 Memo: Allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Securitized Off Balance Sheet Finance receivables Retail installment $ 18.0 $ 16.7 Wholesale 18.9 Other Total finance receivables 18.0 35.6 Net investment in operating leases Total securitized off balance sheet $ 18.0 $ 35.6 Managed Finance receivables Retail installment $ 83.7 $ 98.4 Wholesale 39.6 42.7 Other 4.6 5.3 Total finance receivables, net 127.9 146.4 Net investment in operating leases 22.2 21.9 Total managed $ 150.1 $ 168.3 Serviced $ 153.0 $ 172.3 * At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, finance receivables of $44.7 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, have been sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities ("SPEs"). In addition, at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of $6.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, have been transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credits other obligations or the claims of Ford Credits other creditors. On Balance Sheet Receivables. On balance sheet receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. The decrease was largely offset by the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program in the fourth quarter of 2005, which caused the receivables previously sold by Ford Credit to this program to be reported on balance sheet. Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables. Total securitized off balance sheet receivables declined primarily reflecting the accounting consolidation discussed above. Managed and serviced receivables decreased from year end 2004 primarily reflecting lower retail contract placement volumes. 41 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) The following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ("charge offs") for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. The loss to receivables ratios, which equal charge offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for Ford Credits on balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2005 2004 2005 Over/(Under) 2004 Charge offs (in millions) On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 681 $ 1,281 $ (600 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total on balance sheet $ 706 $ 1,327 $ (621 ) Reacquired Receivables (retail)* $ 22 $ 74 $ (52 ) Securitized Off Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Wholesale Other Total securitized off balance sheet $ 127 $ 244 $ (117 ) Managed Retail installment and lease $ 830 $ 1,599 $ (769 ) Wholesale 23 43 (20 ) Other 2 3 (1 ) Total managed $ 855 $ 1,645 $ (790 ) Loss to Receivables Ratios On Balance Sheet Retail installment and lease 0.72 % 1.25 % (0.53 ) pts. Wholesale 0.09 0.20 (0.11 ) Total including other 0.57 % 1.02 % (0.45 ) pts. Managed Retail installment and lease 0.73 % 1.29 % (0.56 ) pts. Wholesale 0.06 0.10 (0.04 ) Total including other 0.54 % 0.96 % (0.42 ) pts. * Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of Ford Credits FCAR Owner Trust retail securitization program ("FCAR") in the second quarter of 2003. Charge offs and loss to receivable ratios for Ford Credits on balance sheet, securitized off balance sheet and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. These improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, higher used vehicle prices and enhancements to Ford Credits collection practices. Lower levels of retail installment receivables also contributed to reduced charge offs. Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credits allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar amounts in billions): 2005 2004 AlAllowance for Credit Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 2.4 $ 2.9 Provision for credit losses 0.2 0.9 Deductions Charge offs 1.2 1.8 Recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) Net charge offs 0.7 1.3 Other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.3 0.1 Net deductions 1.0 1.4 Balance, end of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end of period net receivables 1.19 % 1.80 % The allowance for credit losses decreased about $800 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting improved charge off performance and the effect of lower retail receivable levels. Hertz Operating Results The improvement in Hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long lived assets from the point Hertz was held for sale (i.e., September 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. 42 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Other Financial Services Operating Results The decrease in earnings primarily reflected the non recurrence of a 2004 property clean up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of Delta Air Lines. 2004 Compared with 2003 Details of the full year Financial Services sector Income/(loss) before income taxes for 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in millions): Income/(Loss) Before Income Taxes 2004 2003 2004 Over/(Under) 2003 Ford Credit $ 4,431 $ 2,956 $ 1,475 Hertz* 493 228 265 Other Financial Services 84 63 21 Total Financial Services sector $ 5,008 $ 3,247 $ 1,761 * Includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz. Ford Credit The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford Credit at lease termination. Hertz The improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the disposal of used vehicle and equipment, offset partially by lower pricing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Automotive Sector Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating related activities, having a long dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding long term liabilities over time. Gross Cash. Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a short term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust ("VEBA"), a trust which may be used to pre fund certain types of company paid benefits for U.S. employees and retirees. Gross cash as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is detailed below (in billions): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 13.4 $ 10.1 $ 6.9 Marketable securities 6.9 8.3 9.3 Loaned securities* 3.4 1.1 5.7 Total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 23.7 19.5 21.9 Short term VEBA assets 1.4 4.1 4.0 Gross cash $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 * As part of our investment strategy, we engage in securities lending to improve the returns on our cash portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion on securities lending. In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two categories: operating related and other (which primarily includes pension and long term VEBA contributions, tax refunds, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, and acquisitions and divestitures). Our key metric is operating related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive 43 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in Net cash flows from operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Gross cash at end of period $ 25.1 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 Gross cash at beginning of period 23.6 25.9 25.3 Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 Operating related cash flow Automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (1.9 ) Non cash portion of special items 1.2 1.1 2.0 Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.4 ) Depreciation and special tools amortization 8.1 6.4 5.5 Changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) 1.3 (0.4 ) (1.0 ) Other (b) (1.3 ) 0.4 2.9 Total operating related cash flows (1.7 ) 1.0 0.1 Other changes in cash Funded pension plans/long term VEBA contributions (2.7 ) (5.0 ) (4.8 ) Tax refunds 0.3 0.3 1.7 Capital transactions with Financial Services sector (c) 2.3 4.2 3.6 Acquisitions and divestitures (d) 5.3 0.4 0.5 Dividends paid to shareholders (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) Changes in total Automotive sector debt (0.5 ) (2.4 ) (0.1 ) Cash from Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") consolidations (e) 0.3 Other (f) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) Total change in gross cash $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) $ 0.6 (a) In 2005, we took measures to improve our working capital, including reducing inventory (both production materials and finished vehicles) and changing the way our European affiliates pay suppliers. (b) Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as marketing, warranty, pension and OPEB. (c) Primarily dividends received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive sector. (d) In 2005, primarily proceeds from the sale of Hertz and the final payment for the Land Rover acquisition. (e) See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of VIEs. (f) In 2005, primarily cash flow associated with the acquisition of ACH from Visteon (an outflow of about $700 million), dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million), and the net issuance of Ford Common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million). Shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement Net cash flows from operating activities and operating related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 5.4 $ 7.0 $ 2.9 Items included in operating related cash flow Capital expenditures (7.1 ) (6.3 ) (7.3 ) Net transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (a) (0.4 ) 1.3 1.2 Net sales/(purchases) of trading securities 0.6 (5.6 ) (1.6 ) Other (b) (2.6 ) (0.1 ) 1.8 Items not included in operating related cash flow Pension and long term VEBA contributions 2.7 5.0 4.8 Tax refunds (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.7 ) Operating related cash flows $ (1.7 ) $ 1.0 $ 0.1 (a) Primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Condensed Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector. (b) Primarily the exclusion of cash flow from short term VEBA contribution/(drawdown). Debt and Net Cash. At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had total debt of $17.9 billion, compared with $18.4 billion a year ago. Total senior debt at December 31, 2005 was $12.7 billion, compared with $13.1 billion at December 31, 2004. The decrease in senior debt primarily reflected repurchases of debt securities in the open market. Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II had outstanding $5.0 billion of trust preferred securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 44 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) At December 31, 2005, our Automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and subordinated debt) of $7.2 billion, compared with $5.2 billion at the end of 2004. The weighted average maturity of our total long term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all of which is fixed rate debt, is approximately 25 years with $4.3 billion maturing by December 31, 2025. The weighted average maturity of total debt (long term and short term including subordinated debt) is approximately 25 years. For additional information on debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Seasonal Working Capital Funding. In July 2005, we raised $2.0 billion of seasonal working capital funding to reduce the cash volatility that results from our summer plant shutdown period. The funding was in the form of 60 day bank loans which were repaid in early September. Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2005, the Automotive sector had $7.1 billion of contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $6.9 billion were available for use. For further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Pension Plan Contributions. In 2005, U.S. pension funding reform proposals were passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although a final bill has not yet been completed, it is likely that a final bill will be passed and signed into law in 2006. It is anticipated that this law would institute more stringent funding requirements for U.S. defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2007. U.K. pension reform was passed in November 2004, and could affect funding requirements beginning in 2007. For a discussion of pension plan contributions we have made in 2005 and expect to make in 2006, see Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Services Sector Ford Credit Ford Credits funding strategy is to maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources that are cost effective. As a result of lower credit ratings, Ford Credits unsecured borrowing costs have increased, its access to the unsecured debt market has become more restricted, and its outstanding short and long term unsecured debt balances have declined. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization and other asset related sources of liquidity, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset backed funding by asset class, region and channel. In addition, Ford Credit will continue to participate in the whole loan market and access the unsecured term debt market opportunistically. Over time, Ford Credit may also need to reduce further the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce Ford Credits ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Debt and Cash. Ford Credits total debt was $134.5 billion at December 31, 2005, down $9.8 billion compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting repayment of maturing debt and lower funding requirements due to lower asset levels. Ford Credits outstanding unsecured commercial paper at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.0 billion, down $7.9 billion compared with a year ago, reflecting decreased investor demand. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credit had cash and cash equivalents of $17.9 billion, compared with $12.7 billion at year end 2004. In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credits short term funding needs and give Ford Credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. Funding. Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. Ford Credits funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. Ford Credits funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. Unsecured debt issuance consists of short and long term unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in U.S. and international capital markets, and reaches both retail and institutional investors. During 2005, Ford Credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given our credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset backed securities, and the 45 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) diversity of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on and off balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2005 38%, 2004 26%, 2003 25%. Ford Credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. In addition to its commercial paper programs, Ford Credit also obtains short term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under a program referred to as Ford Interest Advantage, and such notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At December 31, 2005, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $6.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short term funding obligation. Ford Credits policy is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed bank sponsored asset backed commercial paper issuer ("conduit") capacity, securitizable assets, and back up credit facilities to provide liquidity for all of its short term funding obligations. The following table illustrates Ford Credits term public funding issuances for 2004 and 2005 and its planned issuances for 2006 (in billions): 2006 Forecast 2005 2004 Unsecured Term Debt Institutional $ 0 2 $ 8 $ 7 Retail 0 1 1 5 Total unsecured term debt 0 3 9 12 Term Public Securitization (a) 8 12 12 6 Total term public funding $ 8 15 $ 21 $ 18 Memo Not Included Above Private transactions (b) $ 25 35 $ 18 $ 10 (a) Reflects new issuance and includes funding from discontinued operations in 2004; excludes whole loan sales and other structured financings. (b) Includes private securitizations, other structured financings and whole loan sales; excludes sales to Ford Credits on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. The cost of both debt and funding in securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Ford Credits unsecured spreads have been very volatile over the last three years, as a result of market perception and its lower credit ratings, whereas its securitized funding spreads (which are based on the underlying finance receivables and credit enhancements) have not. In 2005, Ford Credits unsecured long term debt funding spreads fluctuated between 165 and 660 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while its spreads on securitized funding fluctuated between 42 and 58 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Ford Credit has a program to sell retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets. These transactions, referred to as "whole loan sale transactions," provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to support those receivables. In 2005, Ford Credit sold $1.5 billion of receivables in a whole loan sale transaction. Total outstanding receivables sold in whole loan sale transactions at December 31, 2005 were $2.9 billion. For additional funding and to maintain liquidity, Ford Credit and its majority owned subsidiaries, including FCE Bank plc ("FCE"), have contractually committed credit facilities with financial institutions that totaled $6.2 billion at December 31, 2005, of which $5.1 billion were available for use. Of the lines available for use, 36% are committed through June 30, 2010. Of the $6.2 billion, $3.8 billion constitute Ford Credit facilities ($3.2 billion global and about $600 million non global) and $2.4 billion constitute FCE facilities ($2.3 billion global and about $100 million non global). In addition, at December 31, 2005, banks provided $18.7 billion of contractually committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support Ford Credits two on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper programs; $18.2 billion supported Ford Credits FCAR retail program and $500 million supported Ford Credits wholesale securitization program ("Motown Notes"). Ford Credit also has entered into agreements with several bank sponsored conduits under which such conduits are contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credits option, retail receivables for proceeds of up to approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2005, $5.5 billion of these conduit commitments were in use. For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 46 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Leverage. Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt to equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale and lease financing and assessing its capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: Financial Statement Leverage Total Debt Equity Total Debt + Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Retained Interest in Securitized Off Balance Sheet Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Total Debt Managed Leverage Equity + Minority Interest Fair Value Hedge Accounting Adjustments on Equity The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Total stockholders equity 10.7 11.5 12.5 Debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.5 12.6 12.0 The following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credits managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total debt $ 134.5 $ 144.3 $ 149.7 Securitized off balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 18.0 37.7 49.4 Retained interest in securitized off balance sheet receivables (b) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) (13.0 ) Adjustments for cash and cash equivalents (17.9 ) (12.7 ) (15.7 ) Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (4.7 ) Total adjusted debt $ 131.6 $ 156.6 $ 165.7 Total stockholders equity (including minority interest) $ 10.7 $ 11.5 $ 12.5 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) 0.2 Total adjusted equity $ 10.7 $ 11.4 $ 12.7 Managed debt to equity ratio (to 1) 12.3 13.7 13.0 (a) Includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. (b) Includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004. Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold in off balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and evaluates charge offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. Ford Credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations. The fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides Ford Credits investors with meaningful information regarding managements decision making processes. Ford Credits managed leverage strategy involves establishing a leverage level that takes into consideration prevailing market conditions and reflects the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2005, Ford Credits managed leverage was 12.3 to 1, compared with 13.7 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit plans to continue to reduce its managed leverage in 2006. In 2005, Ford Credit paid cash dividends of $2.75 billion. 47 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Total Company Stockholders Equity. Our stockholders equity was $13.0 billion at December 31, 2005, down $3.1 billion compared with December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected foreign currency translation adjustments, net losses on derivative instruments, and cash dividends, offset partially by net income. For additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments and derivative instruments, see Notes 1 and 20, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Credit Ratings. Our short and long term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the Securities and Exchange Commission: Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited ("DBRS"); Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); Moodys Investors Service, Inc. ("Moodys"); and Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). In several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular securities we issue, based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. Ford. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Fords long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered our short term rating to B from F2 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered our long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered our short term rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered our long term rating to Ba3 from Ba1 and maintained our outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered our long term rating to BB (low) from BB (high), affirmed our short term rating at R 3 (high) and maintained our trend at Negative. Ford Credit. In December 2005, Fitch lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB+ from BBB , lowered Ford Credits short term rating to B from F2 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, S&P lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BB+, lowered Ford Credits short term debt rating to B 2 from B 1 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, Moodys lowered Ford Credits long term rating to Ba2 from Baa3, lowered Ford Credits short term rating to Not Prime ("NP") from P3 and maintained Ford Credits outlook at Negative. In January 2006, DBRS lowered Ford Credits long term rating to BB from BBB (low), lowered Ford Credits short term rating to R 3 (high) from R 2 (low) and maintained Ford Credits trend at Negative. The following chart summarizes our present credit ratings and the outlook assigned by four of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations: DBRS Fitch Moodys S&P Long Term Short Term Trend Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Long Term Short Term Outlook Ford BB (low) R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba3 NA Negative BB B 2 Negative Ford Credit BB R 3 (high) Negative BB+ B Negative Ba2 NP Negative BB B 2 Negative 48 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OUTLOOK We have set and communicated the following planning assumptions and operational metrics: Industry Volume (SAAR incl. heavy trucks) Planning Assumptions U.S. 17.0 million units Europe 17.3 million units Industry Net Pricing U.S Slightly negative Europe Slightly negative Operation Metrics 2006 Milestones Quality Improved Market share Flat to improved Automotive cost performance* Favorable Capital spending About $7 billion * At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. Automotive Cost Performance. We expect commodity costs to continue to increase in 2006. We also expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily because capacity reduction actions pursuant to our Way Forward plan will result in accelerated depreciation of assets at certain manufacturing facilities. We expect our quality related costs in 2006 to be about the same as in 2005; although we expect favorable performance in our vehicle quality, we will not have the recurrence of the favorable impact of a $240 million settlement reached in 2005 with Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC. Pension and OPEB expenses in 2006 also are expected to be about the same as last year, with the modifications to retiree health care programs (discussed above under "Overview") offsetting the impact of these expenses for our employees previously assigned to Visteon, as well as lower discount rates and lower assumed rates of return. Manufacturing, engineering and overhead costs are expected to be lower in 2006, reflecting personnel reductions and other efficiencies. Product costs are expected to be favorable in 2006 compared with 2005, as we begin to see the benefits of the material cost reduction plan discussed above under "Overview." Overall, excluding special items and at constant volume, mix, and exchange, we expect our cost performance to be favorable in 2006, compared with 2005. Automotive Results. Our automotive operations in North America are projected to post a pre tax loss in 2006. However, subject to the risks described below, we expect these operations to be profitable no later than 2008, although the progression to profitability will not necessarily be linear or smooth. Subject to the risks described below, we expect each of our other automotive business units to be profitable on a pre tax basis in 2006. Overall, we expect our total automotive operations to be unprofitable in 2006 due to the expected performance of our North American operations. These expected results include certain pre tax charges (i.e., special items) of about $1 billion that we anticipate in 2006. These charges will include the costs associated with the Way Forward plan through 2006, which are estimated to include pre tax charges and cash expenditures of $250 million for hourly personnel reductions, and pre tax charges (primarily non cash) of $250 million for fixed asset write offs. The remainder of these charges relates to personnel reduction actions in Europe and, to a lesser extent, at our ACH operations. In addition, in connection with the Way Forward plan, we are reviewing costs relating to the guaranteed employment numbers ("GEN") provision of our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW. Under this GEN provision, we are required to pay idled workers who meet certain conditions substantially all of their wages and benefits for the term of the current agreement. Heretofore, we have had relatively few employees subject to the GEN provision; however, we expect the number of employees subject to the GEN provision to grow in the near term as a result of the hourly personnel reduction actions that are part of the Way Forward plan. We are presently assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for and amount of these GEN costs, including the extent, if any, to which future GEN costs should be accrued in the first quarter of 2006. Financial Services Results. Our Financial Services sector is projected to be profitable in 2006, but less profitable than in 2005 because of the absence of earnings from Hertz (including the gain on sale) and lower expected earnings at Ford Credit. For 2006, we expect Ford Credits managed receivables to decline to between $140 billion and $145 billion. Ford Credits 2006 earnings are expected to be lower than in 2005 because of the impact of the lower level of receivables and the impact of higher interest rates. 49 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Risk Factors Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: Continued decline in market share; Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States; A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo political events or other factors; Lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; Currency or commodity price fluctuations; Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; Single source supply of components or materials; Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; Worse than assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and or sales restrictions; Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take or pay contracts"); Inability to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; Higher than expected credit losses; Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; Changes in interest rates; Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; Lower than anticipated residual values or higher than expected return volumes for leased vehicles; New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and or additional financing restrictions; and Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing these forward looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors." CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. Warranty and Additional Service Actions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. Assumptions and Approach Used. Our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals are adequate to meet expected future obligations. See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. Pensions Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Inflation Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience, the near term outlook, and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long run inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") penalty premiums, U.K. Pension Protection Fund levies, and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 51 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 funded status of our pension plans is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. Pension expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) in: Percentage December 31, 2005 Point U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans 2005 Expense Assumption Change Funded Status Funded Status Equity U.S. Plans Non U.S. Plans Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ 4,690/$(5,250 ) $ 4,280/$(5,310 ) $ 3,450/$(6,560 ) $ (110)/$320 $ (330)/$430 Actual return on assets +/ 1.0 390/(390 ) 180/(180 ) 1,400/(200 ) Expected return on assets +/ 1.0 (380)/380 (150)/150 The foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity for minimum pension liability in subsequent years will be significant. Other Postretirement Employee Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance) Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: Discount rates Salary growth Retirement rates Expected contributions Health care cost trends Expected return on plan assets Mortality rates Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long term trends. We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience, the near term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. We also consider peer data in setting the expected return on asset assumption. The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. 52 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement benefits. Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2005 OPEB obligation is affected by December 31, 2005 assumptions. OPEB expense for 2005 is based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31, 2004. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to 2005. They are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): Effect on U.S. and Canadian Plans: Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Obligation 2005 Expense Discount rate +/ 1.0 pt. $ (5,540)/$6,330 $ (460)/$530 Health care cost trend rates total expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 830/(650 ) Health care cost trend rates service and interest expense +/ 1.0 4,910/(3,890 ) 490/(380 ) Allowance for Credit Losses Financial Services Sector The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credits estimate of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the financial statements. Ford Credit monitors credit loss performance monthly and assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit loss trends, the credit quality of its present portfolio, trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. Assumptions Used. Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that it expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes Ford Credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount it receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States (in millions): Increase/(Decrease) Assumption Percentage Point Change December 31, 2005 Allowance for Credit Losses 2005 Expense Repossession rates * +/ 0.1 pt. $ 40/$(40 ) $ 40/$(40 ) Loss severity +/ 1.0 10/(10 ) 10/(10 ) * Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. Changes in our assumptions affect the Provision for credit losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. 53 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. For retail leases, such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight line basis. For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. Over the last three years, about 68% of Ford Credits North America operating lease vehicles have been returned to us. For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. Nature of Estimates Required. For vehicles subject to operating leases, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our retail leased vehicles, industry wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. Assumptions Used. For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: Auction value. The market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and Return volume. The number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. At year end 2005, if future auction values for retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $40 million. Similarly, if return volumes for our existing portfolio of retail operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from our present estimates, the impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about $5 million. These increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2006 through 2008 period so that the net investment in retail operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on retail operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet in Net investment in operating leases and on our income statement in Depreciation, in each case under the Financial Services sector. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when the specific transition provisions are absent. This statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change, this statement requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the earliest practicable date. SFAS No. 154 is effective in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect any impact on our financial position and results of operations. 54 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. These include sales of receivables by Ford Credit in off balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities and guarantees, each of which is discussed below. Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit Securitization. Ford Credit sells receivables in securitizations and other structured financings and in whole loan sale transactions. Some of these arrangements satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on Ford Credits balance sheet in the same way as debt funding. The remainder of these arrangements do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the sold receivables and associated debt are not removed from Ford Credits balance sheet. Securitization involves the sale of a pool of receivables to a special purpose entity ("SPE"), typically a trust. The SPE issues interest bearing securities, commonly called asset backed securities, that are backed by the sold receivables. The SPE uses proceeds from the sale of these securities to pay the purchase price for the sold receivables. The SPE may only purchase the receivables, issue asset backed securities and make payments on the securities. The SPE has a limited duration and generally is dissolved when investors holding the asset backed securities have been paid all amounts owed to them. Ford Credits use of SPEs in securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. The sale to the SPE achieves isolation of the sold receivables for the benefit of securitization investors and protects them from the claims of Ford Credits creditors. The use of SPEs combined with the structure of these transactions means that the payment of the asset backed securities is based on the creditworthiness of the underlying finance receivables and any enhancements (as discussed below), and not Ford Credits creditworthiness. As a result, the senior asset backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest short term credit ratings and among the highest long term credit ratings from the credit rating agencies that rate them and are sold to securitization investors at cost effective pricing. Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization is a two step transaction. Ford Credit sells a pool of its retail installment sale contracts to a wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes a separate SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for the proceeds from securities issued by the SPE. The securities issued by the trust, usually notes of various maturities and interest rates, are paid by the SPE from collections on the pool of receivables it owns. These securities are usually structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections from the sold receivables. The receivables acquired by the SPE and the asset backed securities issued by the SPE are assets and obligations of the SPE. The following simplified diagram shows Ford Credits typical U.S. retail securitization transaction: Ford Credit selects receivables at random for its securitization transactions using selection criteria designed for the specific transaction. For securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria are based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the criteria also require receivables to be active and in good standing. Ford Credit retains interests in receivables sold through securitizations. The retained interests may include senior and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, restricted cash held for the benefit of the SPE (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests in securitization transactions. Income from residual interests in securitization transactions represents the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credits retained interests usually include the most 55 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) subordinated interests in the SPE, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold receivables. Ford Credits securitizations are structured to protect the holders of the senior asset backed securities such that, based on past experience, any credit losses in the pool of sold receivables would likely be limited to Ford Credits retained interests. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit in off balance sheet securitizations was $18.0 billion and $35.6 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Ford Credits retained interests in such sold receivables were $1.4 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The decline primarily reflected Ford Credits accounting consolidation of its off balance sheet wholesale securitization program as a result of certain changes made to the program during the fourth quarter of 2005. Ford Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. Investors holding securities issued by an SPE have no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on the sold receivables and have no right to require it to repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance of the sold receivables or the credit rating of Ford Credits short term or long term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional receivables in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls. Risks to Continued Funding under Securitization Programs. The following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: FCAR. If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credits portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease receivables exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase additional asset backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. FCAR is permitted to purchase only highly rated asset backed securities, and if the credit enhancement on any asset backed security purchased by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not purchase any additional asset backed securities and would wind down its operations. Conduits. If credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of sold receivables held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of overcollateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford Credit will be unable to sell additional pools of receivables to that conduit. Wholesale Securitization and Motown Notes Program. If the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, the SPE will be unable to issue additional securities and any existing securities would begin to amortize. Based on its experience, Ford Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. In addition to the specific transaction related structural features discussed above, Ford Credits ability to sell receivables in any of its securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the performance of receivables in its previous receivables sales, general demand for the type of receivables supporting the asset backed securities, market capacity for Ford Credit and Ford Credit sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credits credit rating, and the availability of liquidity facilities. If as a result of any of these or other factors the cost of securitized funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford Credits financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Variable Interest Entities See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities. Guarantees See Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. 56 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued) AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "Purchase obligations" are defined as off balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payments Due by Period Automotive Financial Services Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter On balance sheet Long term debt* $ 17,627 $ 104,119 $ 121,746 $ 27,318 $ 45,623 $ 20,414 $ 28,391 Capital lease 375 375 56 118 111 90 Off balance sheet Purchase obligations 4,013 271 4,284 1,185 1,521 1,086 492 Operating lease 1,758 516 2,274 596 852 442 384 Total $ 23,773 $ 104,906 $ 128,679 $ 29,155 $ 48,114 $ 22,053 $ 29,357 * Principal obligations only. For additional information to our long term debt and operating lease obligations, see Notes 16 and 27, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk OVERVIEW We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC"). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller, and other members of senior management. Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. We protect against these risks through a combination of self insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurers Office and is governed by written polices and procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of Directors. 57 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of inter company loans and dividends and certain transactions that use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. Beginning with this report, we have changed our risk disclosure methodology for foreign currency risk and commodity risk to sensitivity analysis, which we believe is a more commonly used and more easily understood disclosure alternative. Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and or prices. For options and instruments with non linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). The net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was a liability of $400 million as of December 31, 2005 compared to a net fair value asset of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. The potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Commodity Price Risk. Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. Steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. We use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). The net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was $664 million and $294 million, respectively. The potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $200 million at both December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, 58 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) marketable and loaned securities and short term VEBA assets. At December 31, 2005, we had $25.1 billion in our Automotive investment portfolio, compared to $23.6 billion at December 31, 2004. We invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally classified as either trading or available for sale. The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. The available for sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity in other comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short term investment. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available for sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, the value of our trading portfolio was $22.6 billion, which is $3.0 billion higher than December 31, 2004. The value of our available for sale portfolio was $2.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion lower than December 31, 2004. Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available for sale portfolios would be reduced by $91 million and $28 million, respectively. This compares to $88 million and $45 million, respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2004. While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. Counterparty Risk. The use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings based historical default probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower rated counterparties and for longer dated exposures. We use a Monte Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. We monitor and report our exposures to the Treasurer on a monthly basis. Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single A or better. Our guidelines for counterparty minimum long term ratings is BBB . Exceptions to these guidelines require prior approval by management. For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS Overview. Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: Market risk. The possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates or prices will have an adverse impact on operating results; Credit risk. The possibility of loss from a customers failure to make payments according to contract terms; Residual risk. The possibility that the actual proceeds Ford Credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, Liquidity risk. The possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credits overall global risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and residual risks are discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" 59 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) and liquidity risk is discussed above in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." A discussion of Ford Credits market risks is included below. Foreign Currency Risk. To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford Credits market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford Credit is exposed and consists principally of "re pricing risk" or differences in the re pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. An instruments re pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an instruments interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. For fixed rate instruments, the re pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instruments principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re price only when re invested in a new instrument. For a floating rate instrument, the re pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. For instance, a floating rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a re pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instruments maturity. Ford Credits receivables consist primarily of fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating rate wholesale receivables. Fixed rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. Ford Credits funding sources consist primarily of sales of receivables in securitizations and short and long term unsecured debt. In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five to ten year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re pricing profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without derivatives, Ford Credits assets would re price more quickly than its debt. Ford Credits interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance range and staying within this tolerance range through an interest rate risk management program that includes entering into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps. On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its floating rate debt to fixed or its fixed rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre tax net interest income simulation techniques. These simulations calculate the projected pre tax net interest income of its portfolio of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including both parallel and non parallel shifts in the yield curve. These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our Treasurer each month. The process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credits operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, which together represented approximately 80% of its total on balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2005. For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re pricing mismatch. This process uses re pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re pricing characteristics. Under this process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. As a result of its interest rate risk management process, including derivatives, Ford Credits debt re prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on Ford Credits debt will 60 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (continued) increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credits pre tax net interest income would be expected to initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre tax net interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credits pre tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of year end 2005 and 2004 was as follows: Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates (in millions) Pre tax Net Interest Income impact given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ (40 ) $ 40 December 31, 2004 (93 ) 93 Based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was lower at year end 2005 than at year end 2004. This change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credits best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credits repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. Additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credits analysis. As a result, the actual impact to pre tax net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. The fair value of Ford Credits net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 was $1.9 billion. This was approximately $4.2 billion lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar (primarily Euro, British Pound and Yen), the maturity of swaps that were in the money, and lower mark to market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives, please refer to the "Financial Services Sector" discussion in Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
 
