Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources for the operating partnerships definitions of market equity and the operating partnerships share of total debt. As this ratio percentage increases directly with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent companys capital stock, an unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. There can also be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to distribute to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing its co investment ventures, which could adversely impact its private capital business. Other Real Estate Industry Risks The companys performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate assets. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If the companys properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then the operating partnerships ability to pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent company) and, in turn, the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. Income from, and the value of, the companys properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, such as the current one, including diminished access to or availability of capital (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending existing debt) and rising inflation (see Risks of the Current Economic Environment); local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of the companys properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; the companys ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. 16 Table of Contents In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States and in other countries, rising interest rates, diminished access to or availability of capital or declining demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing the companys acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect the companys financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of the companys properties. To the extent that future attacks impact the companys customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. The companys properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if the companys portfolio included other property types. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect the companys earnings and financial condition. The current economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real estate valuations, which has required the company to recognize real estate impairment charges on its assets. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the first test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. As a result of changing market conditions, the company re evaluated the carrying value of its investments and recognized real estate impairment losses of $181.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 on certain of its investments. The principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. The equity method is used when the company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the joint venture but does not have control of the joint venture. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the 17 Table of Contents investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not record any impairment on its investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures. There can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions the company uses to assess impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. A worsening real estate market may cause the company to reevaluate the assumptions used in its impairment analysis and its intent to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. Impairment charges could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations and its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations. The company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or relet space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2009, on an owned and managed basis, the companys occupancy average was 91.4% year to date and the leases on 13.1% of the companys industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to December 31, 2010. The company derives most of its income from rent received from its customers. Accordingly, the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and its ability to pay dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. There can be no assurance that the company will be able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases, increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally realize the potential of its currently low yielding assets (including the build out and leasing of its development platform). Periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect the companys leasing activities. If a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. Further, the companys ability to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties the company has to compete with to appeal to customers. The company could be adversely affected if a significant number of its customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. The companys results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of the parent companys stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of the companys customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. In the current economic environment, it is likely that customer bankruptcies will increase. If a customer seeks the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customers lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction of cash flow to the company. In the event of a significant number of lease defaults and or tenant bankruptcies, the companys cash flow may not be sufficient to pay distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and repay maturing debt and any other obligations. As of December 31, 2009, on an owned and managed basis, the company did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.6%. However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of the companys customers, the company may incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. The company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it expects. On a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire U.S. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or interests in property owning or real estate related entities and platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could increase the companys size and alter its capital and organizational structure. Such acquisitions entail various risks, including the risks that the companys investments may not perform or be accretive to the companys value as it expects, that it may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate its new acquisitions into its existing operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, that portfolio acquisitions may 18 Table of Contents include non core assets, that the new investments may come with unexpected liabilities and that the companys cost estimates for developing or bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. The company may not be able to acquire assets at values above the companys cost of capital. In addition, the company expects to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from private or public equity or debt offerings (including issuances of operating partnership units) and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available at favorable pricing or at all and which could adversely affect the companys cash flow. Further, the company faces significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including both publicly traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors and funds. This competition increases as quality investment opportunities arise at favorable pricing and investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, the company may be unable to make additional investments as it desires or the purchase price of the investments may be significantly elevated. Also, the company may incur significant transaction related costs in exploring and pursuing potential transactions it may not consummate. Any of the above risks could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint ventures, attracting third party investment and owning properties through joint ventures and other investment vehicles. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 88.1 million square feet of the companys properties were held through joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. The companys organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to form new joint ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or realize value from such joint ventures. The companys inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the companys growth, its earnings and the market price of the parent companys securities. Joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the joint venture investments. Joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if the companys joint venture partners go bankrupt, then the company and any other remaining partners may generally remain liable for the investments liabilities; if the companys joint venture partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then the company may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a portion of the joint ventures debt, which may require the company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the joint venture; the companys joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the companys business interests or goals that would affect the companys ability to operate the property; the companys joint venture partners may have the power to act contrary to the companys instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including its current policy with respect to maintaining the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may otherwise restrict the companys ability to sell the interest when it desires or on advantageous terms; the companys relationships with its joint venture partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, the company may not continue 19 Table of Contents to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above market price to continue ownership; disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the companys expenses and prevent its officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on the companys business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its joint venture partners. The company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company may not be successful in contributing properties to its co investment ventures. The company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its co investment ventures on a case by case basis. However, the company may fail to contribute properties to its co investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. If the co investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the value of properties to be contributed or sold to the co investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. A delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects on the companys liquidity and on its ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period, which could have an adverse effect on the companys results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its securities. The company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at all. The company may divest itself of properties, which are currently in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not meet its strategic objectives. The company may, in certain circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. The companys ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including competition from other sellers, current market conditions (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties) and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its properties. If the company is unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact the market price of the parent companys stock. Actions by the companys competitors may affect the companys ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the companys properties. The company competes with other owners, operators and developers of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the companys properties in the same submarkets in which the companys properties are located. If the companys competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to divest in the same markets and or at valuations below the companys valuations for comparable assets, the company may be unable to divest its assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. In addition, if the companys competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates the company currently charges its customers, the 20 Table of Contents company may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently charges in order to retain customers when its customers leases expire. As a result, the companys financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and dividends and, trading price of the parent companys stock and ability to satisfy the operating partnerships debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. The company may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at all. On a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop, renovate and redevelop properties. After the financial and real estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and complete the build out and leasing of its development platform. The company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties in newly formed development joint ventures into which the company may contribute assets. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock, which include the following risks: the company may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable, contributing properties to a joint venture; the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and the companys share of remaining funding may exceed the companys estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; the company may not be able to attract third party investment in new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for its product; the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by its value added conversion projects on its expected timetables or at all; the company may not be able to successfully form development joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures; the company may fail to contribute properties to its co investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as future redemptions; the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to its activities; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of managements time and attention, diverting their attention from the companys day to day operations; and upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for activities that it has financed through construction loans. 21 Table of Contents Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for the company to respond promptly to changing conditions. Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number of properties that the parent company, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that the parent company makes to the properties. In addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of the companys subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, which result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. These limitations may affect the companys ability to sell properties. This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code restrictions may limit the companys ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of the parent companys stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the operating partnerships ability to access capital necessary to meet its debt payments and other obligations. Risks Associated with the Companys International Business The companys international activities are subject to special risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its international business. The company acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties and operating platforms outside the United States. Because local markets affect the companys operations, the companys international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which the company invests. Access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all, in certain locations. In addition, the companys international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of the companys international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights, terrorist or gang related activities, civil unrest and political instability. The company cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. Further, the company has entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. The company cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide it with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Further, even if the company is able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, the company could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. The company also has offices in many countries outside the United States and, as a result, the companys operations may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the United States, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from the companys usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. The companys global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) subjects the company to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and these currencies. Further, the companys business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. If the company fails to effectively manage its international growth, then the companys financial condition, 22 Table of Contents results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected. The company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which it invests. The company may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a strategic and selective basis. As the company invests in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national currency, the company is subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. A significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where the company has a significant investment may materially affect its results of operations. The company attempts to mitigate any such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. The company cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, where the company may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. The company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in international markets that are new to it. When the company acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. The company works to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. General Business Risks The companys performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in California. As of December 31, 2009, the companys industrial properties located in California represented 22.6% of the aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties and 21.0% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. The companys revenue from, and the value of, its properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact Californias economic climate. Because of the number of properties the company has located in California, a downturn in Californias economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The company faces risks associated with short term liquid investments. The company continues to have significant cash balances that it invests in a variety of short term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. From time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly): direct obligations issued by the U.S. Treasury; obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies; taxable municipal securities; obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts; 23 Table of Contents commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short term U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks; repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset backed obligations; both registered and unregistered money market funds; and other highly rated short term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances the company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment, and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that the companys investments in these securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline in the value of the companys investment or a delay or suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on the companys results of operations or financial condition. The company may experience losses that its insurance does not cover. The company carries commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that it owns and manages in types and amounts that it believes are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co payments and policy limits. Although the company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that the company considers commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, the company cannot be certain that it will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. In addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in the companys industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. The company may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and it may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. Given current market conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies providing the companys coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to the company. Furthermore, the company cannot assure you that its insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If the company experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds its insured limits with respect to one or more of its properties or if the companys insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to it in the event of an insured loss, then the company could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then the company would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company generally will be liable for all of the operating partnerships unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co investment ventures. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. A number of the companys properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. The companys largest concentration of such properties is in California where, on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2009, the company had 280 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 30.0 million square feet and representing 22.6% of its industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 21.0% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. International properties located in active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. The company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. 24 Table of Contents A number of the companys properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and or flood risk. The company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the companys financial condition. The company has acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against the company based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then the company might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of the companys insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to its formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the companys properties. Risks Associated with the Companys Dependence on Key Personnel The company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, the companys personnel and their roles may change. As part of the companys cost savings plan, the company has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in the future. While the company believes that it has retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company does not have employment agreements with any of its executive officers. Because the companys compensation packages include equity based incentives, pressure on the parent companys stock price or limitations on the companys ability to award such incentives could affect the companys ability to offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and key employees. If the company is unable to continue to attract and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, the companys performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Conflicts of Interest Risks Some of the companys directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with the company. From time to time, certain of the companys executive officers and directors may own interests in other real estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. The companys executive officers involvement in other real estate related activities could divert their attention from the companys day to day operations. The companys executive officers have entered into non competition agreements with the company pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of 25 Table of Contents any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. State law may limit the companys ability to enforce these agreements. The company will not acquire any properties from its executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange) members of the parent companys board of directors with respect to that transaction. The parent companys role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of its stockholders. As the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has fiduciary obligations to the operating partnerships limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of the parent companys stockholders. In addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnerships partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of the parent companys stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the operating partnerships partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. Risks Associated with Government Regulations The costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed the companys budgets for these items. Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under, in or from its property. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws typically impose liability and clean up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of the companys properties are known to contain asbestos containing building materials. In addition, some of the companys properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of the companys properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, the company may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where the company believes that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk adjusted return. In such an instance, the company underwrites the costs of environmental investigation, clean up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. 26 Table of Contents At the time of acquisition, the company subjects all of its properties to a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and the company may have additional Phase II testing performed upon the consultants recommendation. These environmental assessments have not revealed, and the company is not aware of, any environmental liability that it believes would have a material adverse effect on the companys financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to the company, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than the company anticipated. Further, the companys properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed the companys budgets for these items, then the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If the company is required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then the companys cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders may be adversely affected. The companys properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. The company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails to comply with these requirements. While the company believes that its properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its cash flow and results of operations. Federal Income Tax Risks The parent companys failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders. The parent company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997. The parent company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believes that the parent companys current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable it to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. However, it is possible that the parent company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that the parent companys future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. Qualification as a real estate investment trust requires the parent company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the parent companys control. For example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, the parent company must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. While historically the parent company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, recent Internal Revenue 27 Table of Contents Service guidance allows the parent company to satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the distribution of shares of its stock, if certain conditions are met. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent companys case because it holds its assets through the operating partnership. Legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. However, the parent company is not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect its ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. If the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless the parent company is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which the parent company lost its qualification. If the parent company lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent companys net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, the parent company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders. Furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, the parent companys interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by the parent company from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on the parent companys ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus the parent companys ability to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, the company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its properties, including by contributing properties to its co investment venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties the company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. The company does not believe that its transfers or disposals of property or its contributions of properties into its co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by the company or contributions of properties into the companys co investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. While the company believes that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, the company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the company from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the companys ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. The parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. The parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. Under recent IRS guidance, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, could be payable in the parent companys stock if certain conditions are met. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full 28 Table of Contents amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of the parent companys current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the parent companys stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non U.S. stockholders, the parent company may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of the parent companys stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of the parent companys stock. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent companys stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the parent company or any limited partner of the operating partnership. Risks Associated with Ownership of the Parent Companys Stock Limitations in the parent companys charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of the parent companys charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of the parent companys common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the common stock. To maintain the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the parent companys outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. Furthermore, the parent companys common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12 month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In addition, if the parent company, or an owner of 10% or more of the parent companys stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of the parent companys customers (or a customer of any partnership in which the company is a partner), then the rent received by the parent company (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help the parent company maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, the parent company prohibits the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of the parent companys common stock, series L preferred stock, series M preferred stock, series O preferred stock, and series P preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by the parent companys board of directors). The parent company refers to this limitation as the ownership limit. The charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. The charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. The ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the parent companys stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the shares of the parent companys common stock in connection with such transaction. The parent companys charter authorizes it to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that the parent company issues. The parent companys board of directors could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent companys stockholders. 29 Table of Contents The parent companys charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without the approval of the parent companys board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. The parent companys charter and bylaws include the following provisions: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two thirds vote of stockholders; the parent companys board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the parent companys board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent companys common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. Maryland law includes the following provisions: a two thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the parent companys charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. In addition, the parent companys board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under Maryland law that may impede a change in control. If the parent company issues additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the company is dependent on external sources of capital and the parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the companys future capital needs. The company has the authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., one of the companys subsidiaries, to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or the parent company and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholders investment. Earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the parent companys stock. As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the market value of the parent companys equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the markets perception of the parent companys growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value of the parent companys equity securities is based secondarily upon the market value of its underlying real estate assets. For this reason, shares of the parent companys stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its net asset value per share. To the extent that the parent company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the parent companys underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of its stock. The parent companys failure to meet the markets expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock. Further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of the parent companys stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the parent companys stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the parent companys stocks market price. Additionally, if the market price of the parent companys stock declines significantly, then the operating partnership might breach certain covenants with respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect the companys liquidity and ability to make future 30 Table of Contents acquisitions and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnerships ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. The parent companys board of directors has decided to align the parent companys regular dividend payments with the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone. The parent company may make special distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity. In the past, the parent companys board of directors has suspended dividends to the parent companys stockholders, and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide to pay dividends in the parent companys own stock as provided for in the Internal Revenue Code. The parent company could change its investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. Subject to the parent companys current investment policy to maintain the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the parent companys board of directors under certain circumstances), the parent companys board of directors determines the companys investment and financing policies, its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. The parent companys board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may not serve the interests of all of the parent companys stockholders or the operating partnerships unitholders and could adversely affect the companys financial condition or results of operations, including its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders. Shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the parent companys common stock. The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had 3,376,141 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009, all of which are currently exchangeable on a one for one basis into shares of the parent companys common stock. In the future, the operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may issue additional limited partnership units, and the parent company may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. These shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that the parent company has granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, common stock issued under the companys stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that the parent company has filed or pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31, 2009, under the companys stock option and incentive plans, the company had 6,079,937 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 8,107,697 shares of common stock (of which 5,807,455 are vested and exercisable and 3,200,220 have exercise prices below market value at December 31, 2009) and had 918,753 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of the parent companys common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the parent companys common stock. Further, the existence of the common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and the shares of the parent companys common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which the parent company is able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Risks Associated with the Companys Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting The companys business could be adversely impacted if it has deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over 31 Table of Contents financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that the companys internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Furthermore, the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that the company does not control or manage or third party entities that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited than those the company maintains with respect to the subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the course of time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the companys internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the companys results of operations, restatements of its financial statements, a decline in the parent companys stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2009, the company owned and managed 1,101 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 132.6 million rentable square feet (on a consolidated basis, the company had 684 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 73.7 million rentable square feet), excluding development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution, located in 47 global markets throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. The companys industrial properties were 91.2% leased to 2,481 customers, the largest of which accounted for no more than 3.6% of the companys annualized base rent from its industrial properties. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information related to the companys operations. Property Characteristics. The companys industrial properties, which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple customers, are typically comprised of multiple buildings. The following table identifies types and characteristics of the companys industrial buildings and each types percentage, based on square footage, of the companys total owned and managed operating portfolio: December 31, Building Type Description 2009 2008 Warehouse Customers typically 15,000 75,000 square feet, single or multi customer 55.3 % 53.6 % Bulk Warehouse Customers typically over 75,000 square feet, single or multi customer 34.8 % 36.2 % Flex Industrial Includes assembly or research development, single or multi customer 3.6 % 3.4 % Light Industrial Smaller customers, 15,000 square feet or less, higher office finish 2.3 % 2.7 % Air Cargo On tarmac or airport land for transfer of air cargo goods 2.4 % 2.5 % Trans Shipment Unique configurations for truck terminals and cross docking 1.0 % 1.1 % Office Single or multi customer, used strictly for office 0.6 % 0.5 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Lease Terms. The companys industrial properties are typically subject to leases on a triple net basis, in which customers pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs, or are subject to leases on a modified gross basis, in which customers pay expenses over certain threshold levels. In addition, most of the companys leases include fixed rental increases or Consumer Price Index based rental increases. Lease terms typically range from three to ten years, with a weighted average of six years, excluding renewal options. However, the majority of the companys industrial leases do not include renewal options. 32 Table of Contents Overview of Our Global Market Presence. The companys industrial properties are located in the following markets: The Americas Europe Asia Atlanta Northern New Jersey/ Amsterdam Beijing Austin New York City Bremerhaven Guangzhou Baltimore/Washington D.C. Orlando Brussels Nagoya Boston Quertaro Frankfurt Osaka Chicago Reynosa Hamburg Seoul Dallas/Ft. Worth San Francisco Bay Area Le Havre Shanghai Guadalajara Savannah London Singapore Houston Seattle Lyon Tokyo Mexico City South Florida Madrid Minneapolis Southern California Milan Monterrey Tijuana Paris New Orleans Toronto Rotterdam Within these metropolitan areas, the companys industrial properties are generally concentrated in locations with limited new construction opportunities within established, relatively large submarkets, which we believe should provide a higher rate of occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere. These infill locations are typically near major airports or seaports or convenient to major highway systems and rail lines, and are proximate to large and diverse labor pools. There is typically broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution, light assembly and manufacturing. The company generally avoids locations at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer constraints to the supply of additional industrial properties. 33 Table of Contents Portfolio Overview The following includes the companys owned and managed operating portfolio and development properties, investments in operating properties through non managed unconsolidated joint ventures, and recently completed developments that have not yet been placed in operations but are being held for sale or contribution: Year to Date Trailing Four The Companys Annualized Same Store NOI Quarters Rent Square Feet Share of Square 2009 Base Rent(1) Growth Without Change on as of Feet as of Average psf as of Lease Renewals and Markets 12/31/2009 12/31/2009 Occupancy 12/31/2009 Termination Fees(2) Rollovers(3) Southern California 18,917,656 55.6 % 92.0 % $ 6.34 (1.8 )% (6.5 )% Chicago 13,118,853 54.0 % 90.4 % 5.14 (2.2 )% (15.6 )% No. New Jersey/New York 11,638,422 50.8 % 90.2 % 7.65 (9.5 )% (5.5 )% San Francisco Bay Area 10,958,673 76.3 % 90.1 % 6.33 (5.2 )% (1.8 )% Seattle 7,883,158 51.6 % 94.1 % 5.48 (5.2 )% (0.7 )% South Florida 6,363,198 72.8 % 94.4 % 7.37 (1.0 )% (12.4 )% U.S. On Tarmac(4) 2,463,090 92.4 % 89.7 % 19.85 (4.2 )% 1.0 % Other U.S. Markets 28,502,247 62.5 % 88.9 % 5.52 (7.6 )% (11.0 )% U.S. Subtotal/Wtd Avg 99,845,297 60.8 % 90.9 % $ 6.43 (5.1 )% (7.5 )% Canada 3,564,059 100.0 % 95.3 % $ 5.49 (28.6 )% 3.4 % Mexico City 4,165,885 36.9 % 91.4 % $ 5.59 (18.7 )% (14.8 %) Guadalajara 2,890,526 21.6 % 96.7 % 4.42 (2.2 )% (13.2 )% Other Mexico Markets 893,500 65.6 % 90.5 % 4.63 (26.0 )% (8.0 )% Mexico Subtotal/Wtd Avg 7,949,911 34.5 % 93.5 % $ 5.08 (12.2 )% (14.1 )% The Americas Total/Wtd Avg 111,359,267 60.1 % 91.1 % $ 6.30 (5.4 )% (8.2 )% France 4,060,708 32.7 % 97.6 % $ 8.70 (0.7 )% (14.3 )% Germany 3,192,628 30.2 % 96.9 % 8.98 (5.5 )% (1.8 )% Benelux 3,267,362 31.2 % 91.9 % 9.90 (15.1 )% 1.2 % Other Europe Markets 343,077 61.9 % 100.0 % 14.92 n/a n/a Europe Subtotal/Wtd Avg(5) 10,863,775 32.4 % 95.7 % $ 9.32 (4.7 )% (3.9 )% Tokyo 5,364,804 21.5 % 91.6 % $ 14.80 4.4 % (3.1 )% Osaka 2,000,037 20.0 % 90.5 % 11.96 (3.2 )% 6.7 % Japan Subtotal/Wtd Avg(5) 7,364,841 21.1 % 91.3 % $ 14.07 3.4 % (0.6 )% China 1,897,400 100.0 % 86.1 % $ 4.54 3.5 % 14.1 % Singapore 935,926 100.0 % 98.4 % 9.41 (0.2 )% (4.2 )% Other Asia Markets 218,119 100.0 % 85.2 % 5.96 0.0 % (15.7 )% Asia Total/Wtd Avg(5) 10,416,286 44.2 % 91.0 % $ 11.95 1.1 % (1.6 )% Owned and Managed Total/Wtd Avg(6) 132,639,328 56.6 % 91.4 % $ 6.98 (4.5 )% (6.9 )% Other Real Estate Investments(7) 7,495,959 51.8 % 86.7 % 5.31 Total Operating Portfolio 140,135,287 56.4 % 91.1 % $ 6.90 Development Construction in Progress 5,260,930 86.6 % Pre Stabilized Developments(8) 9,667,775 97.0 % Development Portfolio Subtotal 14,928,705 93.3 % Total Global Portfolio 155,063,992 59.9 % (1) Annualized base rent (ABR) is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2009, multiplied by 12. (2) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why management believes same store cash basis NOI is a useful supplemental measure for the companys management and investors, ways to use this measure when assessing the companys financial performance, and the limitations of the measure as a measurement tool. (3) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former tenants term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental 34 Table of Contents amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. (4) Includes domestic on tarmac air cargo facilities at 14 airports. (5) Annualized base rent for leases denominated in foreign currencies is translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2009. (6) Owned and managed is defined by the company as assets in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which the company currently intends to hold for the long term. (7) Includes investments in operating properties through the companys investments in unconsolidated joint ventures that it does not manage, and are therefore excluded from the companys owned and managed portfolio, and the location of the companys global headquarters. (8) Represents development projects available for sale or contribution that are not included in the operating portfolio. Lease Expirations(1) The following table summarizes the lease expirations for the companys owned and managed operating properties for leases in place as of December 31, 2009, without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations: Square Annualized Base % of Annualized Year Feet Rent (000s)(2)(3) Base Rent(2) 2010 17,309,720 $ 116,679 13.1 % 2011 23,340,991 167,194 18.8 % 2012 17,790,198 138,026 15.5 % 2013 16,418,476 118,763 13.4 % 2014 14,197,938 113,349 12.8 % 2015 11,079,728 78,101 8.8 % 2016 3,955,600 26,703 3.0 % 2017 5,007,304 35,374 4.0 % 2018 3,777,633 30,570 3.4 % 2019+ 8,647,646 64,062 7.2 % Total 121,525,234 $ 888,821 100.0 % (1) Schedule includes leases that expire on or after December 31, 2009. Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties which the company defines as properties in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which the company currently intends to hold for the long term. (2) Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2009, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used. Leases denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2009. (3) Apron rental amounts (but not square footage) are included. 35 Table of Contents Customer Information(1) Top Customers. As of December 31, 2009, the companys largest customers by annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis, are set forth in the table below: Annualized Square Base (000s) % of Annualized Customer(2) Feet Rent(3) Base Rent(3)(4) 1 Deutsche Post World Net (DHL)(5) 3,545,758 $ 30,668 3.6 % 2 United States Government(5)(6) 1,355,450 20,287 2.4 % 3 FedEx Corporation(5) 1,400,090 14,687 1.7 % 4 Sagawa Express 828,552 13,825 1.6 % 5 Nippon Express 1,029,170 13,578 1.6 % 6 BAX Global Inc/Schenker/Deutsche Bahn(5) 1,127,451 10,450 1.2 % 7 La Poste 902,391 8,829 1.0 % 8 Panalpina 1,316,351 8,636 1.0 % 9 Caterpillar Logistics Services 543,039 7,810 0.9 % 10 CEVA Logistics, Inc. 1,032,000 6,933 0.8 % Subtotal 13,080,252 $ 135,703 15.8 % Top 11 20 Customers 6,634,092 46,682 5.6 % Total 19,714,344 $ 182,385 21.4 % (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. (2) Customer(s) may be a subsidiary of or an entity affiliated with the named customer. (3) Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2009, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used. Leases denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2009. (4) Computed as aggregate annualized base rent divided by the aggregate annualized base rent of operating properties. (5) Airport apron rental amounts (but not square footage) are included. (6) United States Government includes the United States Postal Service, United States Customs, United States Department of Agriculture and various other U.S. governmental agencies. 36 Table of Contents OWNED AND MANAGED OPERATING STATISTICS Owned and Managed Operating and Leasing Statistics(1) The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for all of the companys owned and managed operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Operating Portfolio 2009 2008 2007 Square feet owned(2)(3) 132,639,328 131,508,119 118,180,295 Occupancy percentage(3) 91.2 % 95.1 % 96.0 % Average occupancy percentage 91.4 % 94.9 % 95.1 % Weighted average lease terms (years): Original 6.3 6.2 6.2 Remaining 3.5 3.4 3.5 Trailing four quarters tenant retention 61.2 % 71.5 % 74.0 % Trailing four quarters rent change on renewals and rollovers:(4) Percentage (6.9 )% 3.1 % 4.9 % Same space square footage commencing (millions) 21.7 18.4 19.2 Trailing four quarters second generation leasing activity:(5) Tenant improvements and leasing commissions per sq. ft.: Retained $ 1.14 $ 1.43 $ 1.19 Re tenanted $ 2.61 $ 3.23 $ 3.25 Weighted average $ 1.73 $ 2.02 $ 2.03 Square footage commencing (millions) 27.0 22.0 22.8 (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. This excludes development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution. (2) As of December 31, 2008, one of the companys subsidiaries also managed approximately 1.1 million additional square feet of properties representing the IAT portfolio on behalf of the IAT Air Cargo Facilities Income Fund. In December 2008, the company entered into a definitive agreement to terminate our management agreement with IAT Air Cargo Facilities Income Fund, effective in the first quarter of 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the company also had investments in 7.3 million square feet of operating properties through its investments in non managed unconsolidated joint ventures and 0.1 million square feet, which is the location of the companys global headquarters. (3) On a consolidated basis, the company had approximately 73.7 million rentable square feet with an occupancy rate of 89.6% at December 31, 2009. (4) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former customers term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. (5) Second generation tenant improvements and leasing commissions per square foot are the total cost of tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other leasing costs incurred during leasing of second generation space divided by the total square feet leased. Costs incurred prior to leasing available space are not included until such space is leased. Second generation space excludes newly developed square footage or square footage vacant at acquisition. 37 Table of Contents Owned and Managed Same Store Operating Statistics(1) The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for the companys owned and managed same store operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Same Store Pool(2) 2009 2008 2007 Square feet in same store pool(3) 113,692,509 100,912,256 85,192,781 % of total square feet 85.7 % 76.7 % 72.1 % Occupancy percentage(3) 90.9 % 94.8 % 96.4 % Average occupancy percentage 91.6 % 94.6 % 95.9 % Weighted average lease terms (years): Original 6.2 5.8 6.1 Remaining 3.2 2.8 3.1 Trailing four quarters tenant retention 61.1 % 71.7 % 73.4 % Trailing four quarters rent change on renewals and rollovers:(4) Percentage (7.7 )% 2.7 % 5.0 % Same space square footage commencing (millions) 20.2 17.3 17.6 Growth % increase (decrease) (including straight line rents): Revenues(5) (2.3 )% 3.4 % 4.3 % Expenses(5) 2.8 % 5.0 % 6.7 % Net operating income, excluding lease termination fees(5)(6) (4.2 )% 2.8 % 3.4 % Growth % increase (decrease) (excluding straight line rents): Revenues(5) (2.5 )% 4.0 % 5.6 % Expenses(5) 2.8 % 5.0 % 6.7 % Net operating income, excluding lease termination fees(5)(6) (4.5 )% 3.7 % 5.1 % (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. This excludes development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution. (2) Same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting years. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments completed (generally defined as properties that are stabilized or have been substantially complete for at least 12 months) after December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Stabilized is generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied. (3) On a consolidated basis, the company had approximately 63.8 million square feet with an occupancy rate of 89.5% at December 31, 2009. (4) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former customers term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. 38 Table of Contents (5) As of December 31, 2009, on a consolidated basis, the percentage change was (3.0)%, 1.9% and (5.0)%, respectively, for revenues, expenses and NOI (including straight line rents) and (2.8)%, 1.9% and (4.8)%, respectively, for revenues, expenses and NOI (excluding straight line rents). (6) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures for a discussion of same store net operating income and cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of same store net operating income and cash basis same store net operating income and net income. DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES Development Portfolio(1) The following table sets forth the development portfolio of the company as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 Expected Completions(2) 2011 Expected Completions(2) Total Construction in Progress Pre Stabilized Developments(3) Total Development Portfolio Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated % of Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Investment(4) The Americas United States 389,767 $ 36,601 559,605 $ 67,537 949,372 $ 104,138 2,716,297 $ 237,578 3,665,669 $ 341,716 22.2 % Other Americas 607,202 46,487 607,202 46,487 1,715,452 96,415 2,322,654 142,902 9.2 % The Americas Total 996,969 $ 83,088 559,605 $ 67,537 1,556,574 $ 150,625 4,431,749 $ 333,993 5,988,323 $ 484,618 31.4 % Europe France 692,754 $ 59,927 $ 692,754 $ 59,927 37,760 $ 5,085 730,514 $ 65,012 4.2 % Germany 426,552 50,170 426,552 50,170 139,608 19,320 566,160 69,490 4.5 % Benelux 573,352 81,649 573,352 81,649 207,232 35,061 780,584 116,710 7.6 % Other Europe 1,022,887 115,045 1,022,887 115,045 7.5 % Europe Total 1,692,658 $ 191,746 $ 1,692,658 $ 191,746 1,407,487 $ 174,511 3,100,145 $ 366,257 23.8 % Asia Japan 420,847 $ 54,574 $ 420,847 $ 54,574 2,835,609 $ 501,942 3,256,456 $ 556,516 36.1 % China 523,793 22,251 1,067,058 56,525 1,590,851 78,776 598,850 29,854 2,189,701 108,630 7.0 % Other Asia 394,080 25,749 394,080 25,749 1.7 % Asia Total 944,640 $ 76,825 1,067,058 $ 56,525 2,011,698 $ 133,350 3,828,539 $ 557,545 5,840,237 $ 690,895 44.8 % Total 3,634,267 $ 351,659 1,626,663 $ 124,062 5,260,930 $ 475,721 9,667,775 $ 1,066,049 14,928,705 $ 1,541,770 100.0 % Real estate impairment losses(5) (28,160 ) (84,245 ) (112,405 ) Estimated total investment, net of real estate impairment losses $ 447,561 $ 981,804 $ 1,429,365 Number of Projects 13 2 15 33 48 The Companys Weighted Average Ownership Percentage 90.7 % 57.9 % 82.2 % 97.1 % 92.5 % Remainder to Invest $ 23,661 $ 31,160 $ 54,821 $ 28,841 $ 83,662 The Companys Share of Remainder to Invest(6)(7) $ 18,300 $ 23,833 $ 42,133 $ 27,014 $ 69,147 Weighted Average Estimated Yield(7)(8) 6.6 % 7.6 % 6.8 % 6.8 % 6.8 % Percent Pre Leased(9) 15.1 % 14.8 % 15.0 % 59.9 % 44.1 % (1) Includes investments held through unconsolidated joint ventures. (2) Completions are generally defined as properties that are stabilized or have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. (3) Pre stabilized development represents assets which have reached completion but have not reached stabilization. Stabilization is generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied. 39 Table of Contents (4) Represents total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that any of these projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts. Includes value added conversion projects. (5) See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of real estate impairment losses. (6) Amounts include capitalized interest as applicable. (7) Calculated as the companys share of amounts funded to date to its share of estimated total investment. (8) Yields exclude value added conversion projects and are calculated on an after tax basis for international projects. (9) Represents the executed lease percentage of total square feet as of the balance sheet date. PROPERTIES HELD THROUGH CO INVESTMENT VENTURES, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND PARTNERSHIPS The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. The following table summarizes the companys eight consolidated and unconsolidated significant co investment ventures as of December 31, 2009: Principal Incentive Date Geographic Venture Functional Distribution Co investment Venture Established Focus Investors Currency Frequency Term Consolidated AMB SGP March 2001 United States Subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte Ltd. USD 10 years March 2011; extendable 10 years AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II June 2001 United States Various USD At dissolution December 2014 (estimated) AMB AMS June 2004 United States Various USD At dissolution December 2012; extendable 4 years Unconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III October 2004 United States Various USD 3 years (next 2Q11) Open ended AMB SGP Mexico December 2004 Mexico Subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte Ltd. USD 7 years December 2011; extendable 7 years AMB Japan Fund I June 2005 Japan Various JPY At dissolution June 2013; extendable 2 years AMB DFS Fund I October 2006 United States Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC USD Upon project sales Perpetual(1) AMB Europe Fund I June 2007 Europe Various EUR 3 years (next 2Q10) Open ended (1) For AMB DFS Fund I, the investment period ended in June 2009. The fund will terminate upon completion and disposition of assets currently owned and under development by the fund. 40 Table of Contents Consolidated Joint Ventures As of December 31, 2009, the company held interests in co investment ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with institutional investors and other third parties, which it consolidates in its financial statements. Under the agreements governing the co investment ventures, the company and the other party to the co investment venture may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the co investment ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of co investment venture interests by the company or the other party to the co investment venture and typically provide certain rights to the company or the other party to the co investment venture to sell the companys or their interest in the co investment venture to the co investment venture or to the other co investment venture partner on terms specified in the agreement. In addition, under certain circumstances, many of the co investment ventures include buy/sell provisions. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 11 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. The table that follows summarizes the companys consolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Our Gross Ownership Square Book Property Other Consolidated Joint Ventures Percentage Feet(1) Value(2) Debt Debt Operating Co investment Ventures AMB SGP(3) 50 % 8,288,663 $ 470,740 $ 335,764 $ AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II(4) 20 % 7,318,208 513,450 194,980 50,000 AMB AMS(5) 39 % 2,172,137 158,865 79,756 Total Operating Co investment Ventures 35 % 17,779,008 1,143,055 610,500 50,000 Total Consolidated Co investment Ventures 35 % 17,779,008 1,143,055 610,500 50,000 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 89 % 2,436,591 230,463 32,186 Other Industrial Development Joint Ventures 60 % 770,442 272,237 128,374 Total Consolidated Joint Ventures 47 % 20,986,041 $ 1,645,755 $ 771,060 $ 50,000 (1) For development properties, represents the estimated square feet upon completion for committed phases of development projects. (2) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture and excludes net other assets as of December 31, 2009. Development book values include uncommitted land. (3) AMB SGP, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2001 with Industrial JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. (4) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2001 with institutional investors, which invest through a private real estate investment trust, and a third party limited partner. (5) AMB AMS, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2004 with three Dutch pension funds. Unconsolidated Joint Ventures As of December 31, 2009, the company held interests in five significant equity investment co investment ventures that are not consolidated in its financial statements. 41 Table of Contents The table that follows summarizes our unconsolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): The Companys Gross The Companys Estimated Planned Ownership Square Book Property Other Net Equity Investment Gross Unconsolidated Joint Ventures Percentage Feet(1) Value(2) Debt Debt Investment(3) Capacity Capitalization Operating Co Investment Ventures AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III(4)(5) 23% 36,057,101 $ 3,269,614 $ 1,720,405 $ $ 209,999 $ $ 3,270,000 AMB Europe Fund I(5)(6) 21% 9,236,984 1,260,362 719,431 60,177 1,260,000 AMB Japan Fund I(7) 20% 7,263,090 1,498,044 832,370 8,601 80,074 1,498,000 AMB SGP Mexico(8) 22% 6,331,990 357,493 167,180 150,272 19,014 245,000 602,000 Total Operating Co investment Ventures 22% 58,889,165 6,385,513 3,439,386 158,873 369,264 245,000 6,630,000 Development Co investment Ventures: AMB DFS Fund I(9) 15% 200,027 85,270 14,259 85,000 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III(4)(5) 23% 559,605 82,547 42,376 9,122 n/a n/a Total Development Co investment Ventures 19% 759,632 167,817 42,376 23,381 85,000 Total Unconsolidated Co investment Ventures 22% 59,648,797 6,553,330 3,481,762 158,873 392,645 245,000 6,715,000 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 51% 7,419,049 (10) 280,432 160,290 50,741 n/a n/a Total Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 23% 67,067,846 $ 6,833,762 $ 3,642,052 $ 158,873 $ 443,386 $ 245,000 $ 6,715,000 (1) For development properties, represents the estimated square feet upon completion for committed phases of development projects. (2) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture and excludes net other assets as of December 31, 2009. Development book values include uncommitted land. (3) Through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, the company held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $18.7 million as of December 31, 2009. (4) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. is an open ended co investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, which invest through a private real estate investment trust. (5) The planned capitalization and investment capacity of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, as open ended funds are not limited. The planned capitalization represents the gross book value of real estate assets as of the most recent quarter end. (6) AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, is an open ended co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. The venture is Euro denominated. U.S. dollar amounts are converted at the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009. (7) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. is a co investment venture formed in 2005 with institutional investors. The venture is Yen denominated. U.S. dollar amounts are converted at the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009. (8) AMB SGP Mexico, LLC is a co investment venture formed in 2004 with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. Other debt includes $91.4 million of loans from co investment venture partners. (9) AMB DFS Fund I, LLC is a co investment venture formed in 2006 with a subsidiary of GE Real Estate to build and sell properties. (10) Includes investments in 7.4 million square feet of operating properties held through the companys investments in unconsolidated joint ventures that it does not manage, which are excluded from the companys owned and managed portfolio. The companys owned and managed operating portfolio includes properties in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which the company currently intends to hold for the long term. On December 30, 2004, the company formed AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, a co investment venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary 42 Table of Contents of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, in which the company retained an approximate 20% interest. This interest increased to approximately 22% upon the companys acquisition of AMB Property Mexico. During 2009, the company made no contributions to this co investment venture. During 2008, the company contributed three completed development projects totaling approximately 1.4 million square feet to this co investment venture for approximately $90.5 million. During 2007, the company contributed one approximately 0.1 million square foot operating property for approximately $4.6 million to this co investment venture. In addition, the company recognized development profits from the contribution to this co investment venture of two completed development projects aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet with a contribution value of $22.9 million. On June 30, 2005, the company formed AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with 13 institutional investors, in which the company retained an approximate 20% interest. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen (approximately $532.2 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) for an approximate 80% equity interest. During 2009, the company contributed to this co investment venture one completed development project, aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for approximately $184.8 million (using the exchange rate on the date of contribution). During 2008, the company contributed to this co investment venture two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for approximately $174.9 million (using the exchange rate on the date of contribution). During 2007, the company contributed to this co investment venture one completed development project aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for approximately $84.4 million (using the exchange rate on the date of contribution). On October 17, 2006, the company formed AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, a merchant development co investment venture with Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC, in which the company retained an approximate 15% interest. The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the remaining capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2009 was the estimated investment of $5.1 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. Since inception, the company has contributed $28.5 million of equity to the fund. No properties were contributed to this co investment venture during 2009 or 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed to this co investment venture approximately 82 acres of land with a contribution value of approximately $30.3 million. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the company contributed $1.4 million, $4.7 million and $6.0 million to this co investment venture, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, AMB DFS Fund I, LLC sold development projects for approximately $53.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, AMB DFS Fund I, LLC sold development projects and one land parcel for approximately $57.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, AMB DFS Fund I, LLC sold development projects for approximately $8.9 million. Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open ended co investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the companys accounting for its investment because of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. During 2009, the company contributed to this co investment venture two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet, for additional units in the fund equal to 100% of the fair value of the assets, for an aggregate price of approximately $32.5 million. During 2008, the company contributed to this co investment venture one approximately 0.8 million square foot operating property and four completed development projects, aggregating approximately 2.7 million square feet, for approximately $274.3 million. During 2007, the company contributed to this co investment venture one approximately 0.2 million square foot industrial operating property and four completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for approximately $116.6 million. During 2009, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. sold industrial operating properties for approximately $46.6 million. No industrial operating property sales were made from this venture during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. On June 12, 2007, the company formed AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, a Euro denominated open ended co investment venture with institutional investors, in which the company retained an approximate 20% interest upon formation. At the time of formation, the institutional investors committed approximately 263.0 million Euros (approximately $376.8 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) for an approximate 43 Table of Contents 80% equity interest. During 2009, the company made no contributions to this co investment venture. During 2008, the company contributed to this co investment venture two development projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet, for approximately $35.2 million (using the exchange rate on the date of contribution). During 2007, the company contributed approximately 4.2 million square feet of industrial operating properties and approximately 1.8 million square feet of completed development projects to this co investment venture for approximately $799.3 million (using the exchange rates on the dates of contribution). During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company made no contributions of real estate interests, and no gains were recognized. During 2008, the company recognized gains from the contribution of real estate interests, net, of approximately $20.0 million, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash, as a result of the contribution of approximately 0.8 million square feet of industrial operating properties to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed industrial operating properties for approximately $524.9 million, aggregating approximately 4.5 million square feet, into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. The company recognized a gain of $73.4 million on the contributions, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net of taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2007, the company recognized development profits of approximately $95.7 million, as a result of the contribution of 15 completed development projects and two land parcels, aggregating approximately 82 acres of land, to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Under the agreements governing the co investment ventures, the company and the other parties to the co investment ventures may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the co investment ventures may incur additional debt. Secured Debt As of December 31, 2009, the company had $1.1 billion of secured indebtedness, net of unamortized premiums, secured by deeds of trust or mortgages. As of December 31, 2009, the total gross investment book value of those properties securing the debt was $2.0 billion. Of the $1.1 billion of secured indebtedness, $771.1 million, net of unamortized premiums, was consolidated co investment venture debt secured by properties with a gross investment value of $1.5 billion. As of December 31, 2008, the company had $1.5 billion of secured indebtedness, net of unamortized premiums, secured by deeds of trust or mortgages. As of December 31, 2008, the total gross investment book value of those properties securing the debt was $2.1 billion. Of the $1.5 billion of secured indebtedness, $808.1 million was consolidated co investment venture debt secured by properties with a gross investment value of $1.4 billion. For additional details, see Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6 and 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings As of December 31, 2009, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we were a party or of which any of our properties was the subject, the adverse determination of which we anticipate would have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 44 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (AMB Property Corporation) The parent companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AMB. As of February 17, 2010, there were approximately 452 holders of record of the parent companys common stock. Set forth below are the high and low sales prices per share of the parent companys common stock, as reported on the NYSE composite tape, and the dividend per share paid or payable by the parent company during the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009: Year High Low Dividend 2008 1st Quarter $ 57.92 $ 45.75 $ 0.520 2nd Quarter 60.17 49.91 0.520 3rd Quarter 57.13 40.27 0.520 4th Quarter 44.18 8.73 2009 1st Quarter $ 26.03 $ 9.12 $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 20.75 13.81 0.280 3rd Quarter 25.96 15.91 0.280 4th Quarter 27.43 20.71 0.280 The payment of dividends and other distributions by the parent company is at the discretion of its board of directors and depends on numerous factors, including the parent companys cash flow, financial condition and capital requirements, real estate investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (AMB Property, L.P.) There is no established public trading market for the operating partnerships partnership units. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding 160,448,893 partnership units, consisting of 158,328,965 general partnership units (consisting of 149,028,965 common units, 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units, 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units, 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units) and 2,119,928 common limited partnership units. The series L preferred units were issued on June 23, 2003 to the parent company for total consideration of $50.0 million. The series M preferred units were issued on November 25, 2003 to the parent company for total consideration of $57.5 million. The series O preferred units were issued on December 13, 2005 to the parent company for total consideration of $75.0 million. The series P preferred units were issued on August 25, 2006 to the parent company for total consideration of $50.0 million. Subject to certain terms and conditions, the common limited partnership units are redeemable by the holders thereof or, at the operating partnerships option, exchangeable on a one for one basis for shares of the common stock of the parent company. As of December 31, 2009, there were 48 holders of record of our common limited partnership units (including the parent companys general partnership interest). 45 Table of Contents During 2009, the operating partnership redeemed 47,563 common limited partnership units for the same number of shares of the parent companys common stock. In addition, during 2009, the operating partnership redeemed 13,318 common limited partnership units for approximately $268,599. Set forth below are the distributions per common limited partnership unit paid by us during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Year Distribution 2008 1st Quarter $ 0.520 2nd Quarter 0.520 3rd Quarter 0.520 4th Quarter 2009 1st Quarter $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 0.280 3rd Quarter 0.280 4th Quarter 0.280 46 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following line graph compares the change in the parent companys cumulative total stockholder return on shares of its common stock from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009 to the cumulative total return of the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in the common stock of the parent company and each of the indices on December 31, 2004 and, as required by the SEC, the reinvestment of all dividends. The return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance. COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among AMB Property Corporation, The SP 500 Index And The FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index *$100 invested on 12/31/04 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2010 SP, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. This graph and the accompanying text are not soliciting material, are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by reference in any filing by the company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA (1) (AMB Property Corporation) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the parent company on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) 2005 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,842 $ 693,563 $ 650,886 $ 694,372 $ 630,643 (Loss) income from continuing operations(3) (122,685 ) (11,308 ) 288,266 216,304 190,159 Income from discontinued operations 94,725 4,558 83,450 72,509 158,455 Net (loss) income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 348,614 Net (loss) income (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 348,614 Net (loss) income available to common stockholders (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 207,970 248,798 (Loss) income from continuing operations available to common stockholders per common share: Basic (1.02 ) (0.71 ) 2.23 1.60 1.21 Diluted (1.02 ) (0.71 ) 2.18 1.55 1.16 Income from discontinued operations available to common stockholders per common share: Basic 0.65 0.03 0.79 0.77 1.75 Diluted 0.65 0.03 0.77 0.74 1.68 Net (loss) income available to common stockholders per common share: Basic (0.37 ) (0.68 ) 3.02 2.37 2.96 Diluted (0.37 ) (0.68 ) 2.95 2.29 2.84 Dividends declared per common share 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 1.76 Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 134,321,231 97,403,659 97,189,749 87,710,500 84,048,936 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 134,321,231 97,403,659 99,601,396 90,960,637 87,733,596 Other Data Funds from operations(4) $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 $ 295,893 $ 252,752 Funds from operations per common share and unit:(4) Basic 0.72 0.78 3.58 3.21 2.85 Diluted 0.72 0.77 3.49 3.10 2.74 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 242,276 301,020 240,543 335,855 295,815 Investing activities 75,129 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) (60,407 ) Financing activities (288,549 ) 581,765 420,025 483,621 (101,856 ) Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 $ 6,798,294 Total assets 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 6,802,739 Total consolidated debt 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 3,401,561 Parent companys share of total debt(5) 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 2,601,878 Preferred stock 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 175,548 Stockholders equity (excluding preferred stock) 2,716,604 2,291,695 2,540,540 1,943,240 1,740,751 48 Table of Contents (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per share calculations. (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, included in the parent companys operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) (Loss) income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $174.4 million and $183.8 million, respectively, and restructuring charges of $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO when assessing the parent companys financial performance, and FFOs limitations as a measurement tool. (5) Parent companys share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that parent companys share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 49 Table of Contents SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA (1) (AMB Property, L.P.) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the operating partnership on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) 2005 (dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,842 $ 693,563 $ 650,886 $ 694,372 $ 630,643 (Loss) income from continuing operations(3) (122,685 ) (11,308 ) 288,266 216,304 190,159 Income from discontinued operations 94,725 4,558 83,450 72,509 158,455 Net (loss) income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 348,614 Net (loss) income (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 348,614 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders (50,866 ) (67,233 ) 305,241 217,419 262,381 (Loss) income from continuing operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (1.02 ) (0.69 ) 2.20 1.59 1.20 Diluted (1.02 ) (0.69 ) 2.15 1.54 1.15 Net income from discontinued operations available to common uniholders per common unit: Basic 0.65 0.03 0.81 0.77 1.76 Diluted 0.65 0.03 0.79 0.74 1.69 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 3.01 2.36 2.96 Diluted (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 2.94 2.28 2.84 Distributions declared per common unit 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 1.76 Weighted average common units outstanding basic 136,484,612 101,253,972 101,550,001 92,047,678 88,684,262 Weighted average common units outstanding diluted 136,484,612 101,253,972 103,961,648 95,297,815 92,368,922 Other Data Funds from operations(4) $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 $ 295,893 $ 252,752 Funds from operations per common unit:(4) Basic 0.72 0.78 3.58 3.21 2.85 Diluted 0.72 0.77 3.49 3.10 2.74 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 242,276 301,020 240,543 335,855 295,815 Investing activities 75,129 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) (60,407 ) Financing activities (288,549 ) 581,765 420,025 483,621 (101,856 ) Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 $ 6,798,294 Total assets 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 6,802,739 Total consolidated debt 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 3,401,561 Operating partnerships share of total debt(5) 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 2,601,878 Preferred units 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 175,548 Partners capital (excluding preferred units) 2,755,165 2,342,526 2,610,574 2,095,835 1,904,730 (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per unit calculations. (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because 50 Table of Contents of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, included in the operating partnerships operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) (Loss) income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $174.4 million and $183.8 million, respectively, and restructuring charges of $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO when assessing the operating partnerships financial performance, and FFOs limitations as a measurement tool. (5) Operating partnerships share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the operating partnerships leverage and to compare the operating partnerships leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 51 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements Overview Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company began to be impacted by the economic, financial and real estate market crisis. To maintain its competitive advantage, the company established three key near term priorities for 2009 which included: strengthening its balance sheet and liquidity position; reducing its cost structure; and positioning for future growth opportunities. Management believes that in 2009 it successfully executed on these near term priorities, which enabled the company to navigate through a challenging environment, and that the company is now positioned to pursue growth opportunities. As such, the company has established three key growth initiatives for 2010, which include: improving the utilization of its existing assets; acquiring industrial real estate with total returns above the companys cost of capital; and forming new private capital ventures and funds. Management believes that the leading indicators for economic recovery reached an inflection point during the fourth quarter and expects that improving economic conditions will lead to an increase in the demand for industrial real estate. Management expects to see earnings growth if it is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the build out and leasing of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is evaluating multiple transactions in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. The company is also observing a positive shift in investor interest and believes that this growing level of interest is being met by the scarcity of high quality, well located industrial real estate. Management believes that its existing and new private capital funds and ventures are well positioned to benefit from this shift in investor preferences. The Companys Liquidity and Balance Sheet Management believes that the companys financial position is strong and its debt maturity schedule is well laddered. During 2009, the company completed approximately $2.7 billion of debt repayments, repurchases and extensions, of which $1.6 billion occurred in the fourth quarter. Notable transactions during 2009, which further strengthened the companys liquidity position included: The issuance and sale of 47.4 million shares of its common stock for net proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, during the first quarter; The issuance of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes consisting of a $250.0 million tranche at 6.13% due 2016 and a $250.0 million tranche at 6.63% due 2019; The refinancing of its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012, which was subsequently upsized to $425.0 million in December 2009; The early repayment of its $230.0 million secured term loan facility originally due September 2010; The completion of the repurchase of $213.6 million in bonds including $168.9 million in connection with its cash tender offer of notes due 2011 and 2013 and $44.7 million of open market repurchases of notes due 2010 and 2013 with a weighted average yield to maturity of 4.74%, and the completion of a cash tender offer for $146.5 million and $28.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships 5.45% medium term notes due 2010 and 8.0% medium term notes due 2010, respectively; and 52 Table of Contents The purchase of AMB Property II, L.P.s outstanding 7.18% series D cumulative redeemable preferred units in exchange for 2.9 million shares of the parent companys common stock for an aggregate price of $67.8 million, which represented a 15% discount to the liquidation preference. As a result of its 2009 financing activity, the company reduced its share of total debt to its share of total assets to 43.6% from 51.1% and extended the weighted average remaining life of over 25% of its debt to more than five and a half years at an average interest rate of 4.9%. Having resolved its near term maturities, the company embarked on a strategy, during the fourth quarter, to further lengthen its maturity schedule to minimize its debt maturities through 2013. Management believes this strategy will provide it with maximum flexibility and further position the company to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. As of December 31, 2009, the companys total consolidated debt maturities for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) were $322.4 million, excluding principal amortization. The company had unconsolidated debt maturities of $148.2 million for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) as of December 31, 2009, excluding principal amortization. During 2009, the company disposed of $762.9 million of properties with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 6.8%. During the fourth quarter, the company completed dispositions totaling $92.9 million, with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 8.2%. During 2009, the company increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the company had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%, and had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $206.1 million. The Companys Cost Structure To address the challenges of the current business environment, the company implemented a broad based cost reduction plan that began in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of this plan, the company reduced its total global headcount by approximately one third and reduced gross GA costs by approximately $60.0 million on a run rate basis as of December 31, 2009. In executing these cost saving efforts, the company believes that it has preserved its ability to serve its global customers and manage its industrial operating and development portfolios. While the company has removed excess capacity in its capital deployment teams, it believes that it has retained its key talent and left its global capabilities intact. During the fourth quarter, the company began the process of outsourcing various global property accounting and certain back office functions. The company believes that this initiative will improve the efficiency, cost structure and scalability of its back office operations. The company incurred $2.5 million in severance costs during the fourth quarter and expects to realize $2 3 million of additional restructuring costs in 2010 related to completing this initiative. Management believes that it will produce approximately $5.0 million in annual savings upon the completion of this initiative. Real Estate Operations During 2009, industrial property fundamentals were the most challenging on record. According to data provided by CBRE Econometric Advisors as of January 25, 2010, availability in the United States reached a historical high of 13.9% for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, up 40 basis points from the prior quarter and 250 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year 2009, industrial net absorption was negative 265 million square feet, the lowest on record. The negative trend decelerated over the course of the year, slowing to a negative 38 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Within the U.S., the company believes that its coastal markets will continue to outperform other U.S. industrial markets, as evidenced by flat net absorption and availability unchanged at 12.1% in the fourth quarter. The company continues to believe that the primary infill markets tied to global trade remain relatively strong. Also according to CBRE Econometric Advisors, new construction was at an all time low of 71 million square feet for 2009 and 15.2 million square feet for the fourth quarter. While the company expects the delivery pipeline to continue to decline, the company expects net absorption to be positive in the second half of 2010. At the end of the 53 Table of Contents third quarter, the global market fundamentals began to show early signs of stability. Globally, industrial demand is still soft, but management believes that it is seeing signs of increased customer activity and decision making. Market occupancy declines are slowing globally and leasing activity has increased. Market rents remain lower than a year ago and the company expects rent changes on rollovers to continue to trend down through 2010. Current forecasts for 2010, according to the IMF, indicate that global GDP is expected to increase by 3.9% and global trade by 6%, all of which should lead to inventory rebuilding and demand for industrial real estate. The company believes that while the leading indicators for demand for industrial real estate have reached an inflection point, recovery in operating fundamentals will lag behind the recovery in the macro economy as it has in prior cycles. Management expects that its operating fundamentals in the first half of 2010 will be consistent with occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2009 before improving by the end of 2010. Rent changes on rollover are expected to be negative for 2010. For 2009, the company generated $406.9 million of net operating income, on a consolidated basis, from its real estate operations. The companys owned and managed portfolio occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 91.2%, up 20 basis points from September 30, 2009. Average occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 90.7%, up 30 basis points from the three months ended September 30, 2009. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, rent changes on rollovers in the companys industrial operating portfolio declined by 11.5% on an owned and managed basis, excluding expense reimbursements, rental abatements, percentage rents and straight line rents. Rental rates on lease renewals and rollovers in the companys portfolio declined by 6.9% for the trailing four quarters ended December 31, 2009. During the quarter, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees, decreased by 7.3% and 4.5% for the full year 2009 on an owned and managed basis. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees decreased 8.9% for the fourth quarter and 4.7% for the full year 2009. See Supplemental Earnings Measures below for a discussion of cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of cash basis same store net operating income and net income. As of December 31, 2009, the accounts receivable levels were consistent with historical levels, during recessionary periods, and management believes that the accounts receivable are leveling and that it continues to maintain adequate bad debt reserves. Although the number of bankruptcies of its customers increased during 2009, the company believes the impact of such bankruptcies on its business was not significant for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. Private Capital Business For the year ended December 31, 2009, the company generated private capital revenues of $37.9 million, of which $10.5 million occurred in the fourth quarter. During the first quarter, the company contributed one $185.0 million development project to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the third quarter, the company transferred two assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional units equal to the fair value of the assets, for an aggregate price of $32.5 million, increasing its ownership interest in the fund to 22.7% from 19.3%. Subsequent to year end, the companys two open ended funds completed approximately $267.0 million in net capital transactions consisting of: $50.0 million in new third party equity in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; $67.0 million in investor elected redemption withdrawals, thereby reducing AMB Institutional Alliance Fund IIIs redemption queue to $14.9 million as of February 1, 2010; the companys $100.0 million investment in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; and its $50.0 million investment in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS. Equityholders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. Development Business Given the uncertainty in the global economy during 2009, the company limited its development activity to previously committed projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company commenced development 54 Table of Contents on four previously committed development projects for a total estimated investment cost of $60.6 million. In addition to its committed development pipeline, as of December 31, 2009, the company held a total of 2,488 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 85% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,488 acres of land could support approximately 45.1 million square feet of future development. Impairment Charges The company recognized real estate impairment charges on certain of its assets of $181.9 million in the first quarter of 2009 and of $193.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2009. Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company completed the following significant capital deployment and other transactions: Contributed one completed development project aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for an aggregate price of approximately $184.8 million (using the exchange rate in effect on the date of contribution) to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, including 1.1 million square feet that was held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, and three land parcels totaling 35 acres for an aggregate sales price of $347.5 million; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.9 million square feet, including 0.6 million square feet that were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, for an aggregate sales price of $198.1 million; and Transferred two development assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional partnership units equal to the fair value of the assets for an aggregate price of $32.5 million and aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with new guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or 56 Table of Contents cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. 57 Table of Contents Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2007 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2009, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 63.8 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Acquired: Square feet (in thousands) 2,831 702 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ $ 217,044 $ 62,241 Development Properties Sold or Contributed: Square feet (in thousands) 3,387 5,274 8,600 For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 473.8 $ 533.5 $ (59.7 ) (11.2 )% 2008 acquisitions 19.5 11.0 8.5 77.3 % Development 50.9 21.8 29.1 133.5 % Other industrial 51.8 58.8 (7.0 ) (11.9 )% Total rental revenues 596.0 625.1 (29.1 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 37.9 68.5 (30.6 ) (44.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.9 $ 693.6 $ (59.7 ) (8.6 )% Same store rental revenues decreased $59.7 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $494.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $20.8 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in revenues from prior year acquisitions is due to revenues recognized for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in rental revenues from development of $29.1 million is 58 Table of Contents primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The decrease in these revenues of $7.0 million primarily reflects a decline in occupancy in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.6 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions of $2.9 million for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 109.9 $ 100.5 $ 9.4 9.4 % Real estate taxes 79.1 78.9 0.2 0.3 % Total property operating costs $ 189.0 $ 179.4 $ 9.6 5.4 % Property operating costs Same store $ 143.6 $ 149.6 $ (6.0 ) (4.0 )% 2008 acquisitions 7.8 3.1 4.7 151.6 % Development 21.3 7.7 13.6 176.6 % Other industrial 16.3 19.0 (2.7 ) (14.2 )% Total property operating costs 189.0 179.4 9.6 5.4 % Depreciation and amortization 179.9 164.2 15.7 9.6 % General and administrative 115.3 144.0 (28.7 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 174.4 183.7 (9.3 ) (5.1 )% Other expenses 10.2 0.5 9.7 1,940.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 676.3 $ 685.2 $ (8.9 ) (1.3 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $139.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The increase of $3.9 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to an increase in common area maintenance expenses and ground rent expense. The increase in expenses of $4.7 million related to properties acquired in 2008 is due to the recognition of expenses for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in development operating costs of $13.6 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. The decrease in other industrial operating costs of $2.7 million was primarily due to the disposition of industrial operating properties during 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $15.7 million is primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.7 million is primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and 59 Table of Contents the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. Other expenses increased $9.7 million primarily as a result of an increase in the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan expenses of $15.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs of $5.8 million from prior year. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expenses) 6.3 (3.1 ) 9.4 303.2 % Interest expense, including amortization (121.4 ) (134.0 ) (12.6 ) (9.4 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.2 ) $ (19.7 ) $ (60.5 ) (307.1 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income increased $9.4 million from the prior year primarily due to a $15.7 million increase in gains related to the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income of $4.7 million due to lower cash balances and interest rates and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $12.6 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 3.0 $ 2.0 $ 1.0 50.0 % Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 94.7 $ 4.6 $ 90.1 1,958.7 % The increase in income attributable to discontinued operations of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in real estate impairment losses on properties sold in 2009 or held for sale as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 60 Table of Contents 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 62.0 % On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 533.5 $ 555.0 $ (21.5 ) (3.9 )% 2008 acquisitions 11.0 11.0 100.0 % Development 21.8 7.3 14.5 198.6 % Other industrial 58.8 56.9 1.9 3.3 % Total rental revenues 625.1 619.2 5.9 1.0 % Private capital revenues 68.5 31.7 36.8 116.1 % Total revenues $ 693.6 $ 650.9 $ 42.7 6.6 % Same store rental revenues decreased $21.5 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $573.3 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $18.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased rental rates and decreases in free rent. The increase in rental revenues from development of $14.5 million is primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $1.9 million primarily reflects the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation and higher rent levels during 2008. The increase in private capital revenues of $36.8 million was primarily due to the receipt of an incentive distribution of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an 61 Table of Contents incentive distribution of $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and an increase in asset management fees as a result of an increase in total unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition fees. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 100.5 $ 95.9 $ 4.6 4.8 % Real estate taxes 78.9 73.2 5.7 7.8 % Total property operating costs $ 179.4 $ 169.1 $ 10.3 6.1 % Property operating costs Same store $ 149.6 $ 155.3 $ (5.7 ) (3.7 )% 2008 acquisitions 3.1 3.1 100.0 % Development 7.7 2.9 4.8 165.5 % Other industrial 19.0 10.9 8.1 74.3 % Total property operating costs 179.4 169.1 10.3 6.1 % Depreciation and amortization 164.2 157.3 6.9 4.4 % General and administrative 144.0 129.5 14.5 11.2 % Restructuring charges 12.3 12.3 100.0 % Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 183.7 0.9 182.8 20,311.1 % Other expenses 0.5 5.1 (4.6 ) (90.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 685.2 $ 463.0 $ 222.2 48.0 % Same store properties operating expenses decreased $5.7 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $159.9 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $4.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, ground rent expenses and non reimbursable expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $4.8 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $8.1 million was primarily due to an increase in the number of properties that have reached these levels of operations. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $6.9 million was primarily due to the recognition of $4.3 million of depreciation expense resulting from the reclassification of $76.7 million from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2008 and asset stabilizations, as well as the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $14.5 million was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs, resulting from increased employee headcount in the first three quarters of 2008 as well as an increase in professional services, and taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recorded $12.3 million in restructuring charges due to the implementation of a broad based cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The increase in real estate impairment losses was primarily a result of changes in the economic environment in addition to the write off of pursuit costs. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to 62 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in other expenses of $4.6 million was primarily due to a loss on our non qualified deferred compensation plans during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a gain during the year ended December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 81.1 $ 124.3 $ (43.2 ) (34.8 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 73.4 (53.4 ) (72.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.1 7.5 9.6 128.0 % Other income (expenses) (3.1 ) 22.3 (25.4 ) (113.9 )% Interest expense, including amortization (134.0 ) (126.8 ) 7.2 5.7 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (0.8 ) (0.4 ) 0.4 100.0 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (19.7 ) $ 100.3 $ (120.0 ) (119.6 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed 4.2 million square feet in industrial operating properties into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, contributed one 0.2 million square foot industrial operating property into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and contributed one industrial operating property aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet into AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, for a total of approximately $524.9 million. As a result of these contributions, the company recognized gains from the contribution of real estate interests of approximately $73.4 million, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the contribution of the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, as well as growth in the companys unconsolidated assets under management. Other income (expenses) decreased $25.4 million from the prior year primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate loss, a loss on the companys nonqualified deferred compensation plan of $7.8 million, the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on impairment of an investment and a decrease in interest income of approximately $3.3 million, partially offset by an increase in third party management fees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company recognized a gain on currency remeasurement of approximately $3.9 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in 2008. Additionally, other income during the year ended December 31, 2007 included insurance proceeds of approximately $2.9 million related to losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Interest expense increased $7.2 million as a result of increased total consolidated debt at December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 2.0 $ 19.2 $ (17.2 ) (89.6 )% Development profits, net of taxes 52.1 (52.1 ) 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 2.6 12.1 (9.5 ) (78.5 )% Total discontinued operations $ 4.6 $ 83.4 $ (78.8 ) (94.5 )% 63 Table of Contents The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $17.2 million for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to $10.2 million of real estate impairment losses on assets sold in 2008 and held for sale as of December 31, 2008, as well as a decrease in sales and contributions of industrial operating properties in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of $12.1 million, and value added conversion projects for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $52.1 million. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption premium (2.9 ) 2.9 (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (18.7 ) $ 2.9 (15.5 )% On April 17, 2007, the operating partnership redeemed all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series J cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units and all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series K cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. In addition, AMB Property II, L.P., one of the operating partnerships subsidiaries, repurchased all 510,000 of its outstanding 8.00% series I cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. As a result of the redemptions and repurchase, the company recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $2.9 million for the original issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned an approximate 97.8% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 2.2% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its 64 Table of Contents investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created co investment ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2009: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. In December 2007, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock, which terminated on December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the parent company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $87.7 million at a weighted average price of $49.64 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $53.4 million at a weighted average price of $49.87 per share. In March 2009, the parent company completed the issuance of 47.4 million shares of its common stock at a price of $12.15 per share for proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. The proceeds from the offering were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. 65 Table of Contents Market Equity as of December 31, 2009 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 149,258,376 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,813,552 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,634,517 $ 3,899,812 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market 66 Table of Contents price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 49.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.6% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total book capitalization is defined as the parent companys share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership unitholders plus stockholders equity. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of AMB Property, L.P. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt Guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships 67 Table of Contents liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 68 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (21,178 ) (66,007 ) (137,722 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In May 2008, the operating partnership sold $325.0 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes under its Series C medium term note program. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitation on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to $425.0 million of its other debt, related to the following loan facility. In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. The facility includes Euro and Yen tranches, with both the multi currency and the U.S. dollar components currently priced at 275 basis points over the applicable LIBOR index. This facility contains limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility, 69 Table of Contents which, as of December 31, 2009, had a balance of $55.5 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.68%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $182.9 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.7%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to further increase the facility to $750.0 million, to extend the maturity date to July 2011 and to allow for future borrowing in Indian rupees. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $239.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and 70 Table of Contents net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash provided by operating activities was $242.3 million as compared to $301.0 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to lower net operating income in 2009 as well as changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash provided by investing activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $881.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to an increase in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and decreases in the following: cash paid for property acquisitions, additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs, loans made to affiliated entities and the purchase of equity interests. This is partially offset by the decrease in repayment of mortgage and loan receivables. Cash used in financing activities was $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $581.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net borrowings on secured debt, other debt and unsecured credit facilities and an increase in payments on senior debt. This activity was partially offset by an increase in net proceeds from issuances of senior debt, an increase in the issuance of common and preferred units, a decrease in the repurchase of common units, and a decrease in distributions paid to common and preferred unitholders and noncontrolling interests. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding 149,028,965 common general partnership units; 2,119,928 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. 71 Table of Contents The net proceeds from the parent companys March 2009 offering of 47.4 million shares of common stock were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. The operating partnership used the proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities. The proceeds were approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions on a consolidated basis during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 1 Square feet 3,685,677 396,710 Estimated investment(1) $ 264,697 $ 17,396 Sold: Number of projects 3 2 Square feet 774,663 158,871 Estimated investment(1) $ 62,695 $ 37,686 Contributed: Number of projects 4 Square feet 2,122,056 Estimated investment $ $ 139,316 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 24 19 Square feet 6,669,855 5,834,143 Estimated investment(1) $ 567,634 $ 751,028 Total: Number of projects 38 26 Square feet 11,130,195 8,511,780 Estimated investment(1) $ 895,026 $ 945,426 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Square feet 1,977,185 73,927 498,017 Gross sales price $ 293,846 $ 26,116 $ 222,963 Net proceeds $ 254,888 $ 23,557 $ 208,795 Development profits, net of taxes $ 59,068 $ 7,235 $ 80,706 72 Table of Contents Development contribution activity during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Number of projects contributed to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 2 4 4 Square feet 428,180 2,723,003 1,006,164 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 2 Square feet 1,421,043 329,114 Number of land parcels contributed to AMB DFS Fund I, LLC 2 Square feet Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 2 8 Square feet 164,574 1,838,011 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 1 Square feet 981,162 891,596 469,627 Total number of contributed development assets 3 11 17 Total square feet 1,409,342 5,200,216 3,642,916 Gross contribution price $ 217,293 $ 374,878 $ 397,389 Net proceeds $ 56,822 $ 254,791 $ 378,531 Development profits, net of taxes $ 29,808 $ 73,849 $ 95,713 Development Sales and Contributions. During 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $59.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects and land parcels, aggregating approximately 2.0 million square feet. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $28.6 million as a result of the sale of development projects and 76 acres of land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $95.7 million, as a result of the contribution of 15 completed development projects and two land parcels, aggregating approximately 82 acres of land, to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. Also during 2008, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During 2007, the operating partnership contributed operating properties for approximately $524.9 million, aggregating approximately 4.5 million square feet, into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. The operating partnership also recognized a gain of $73.4 million in 2007 on the contributions, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third 73 Table of Contents party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for sale two properties with an aggregate net book value of $8.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 96% to an expected range of 15 20%. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 20 properties with an aggregate net book value of $600.8 million. As of December 31, 2009, no properties were reclassified from held for sale and properties with an aggregate net book value of $143.9 million were reclassified from held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, properties with an aggregate net book value of $100.4 million were reclassified from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $2.2 million as a result of the reclassification, as well as impairment charges of $21.8 million on real estate assets held for divestiture or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. During 2007, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $12.1 million. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the statements of operations. Value added Conversion Sales. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, including approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres, for an aggregate price of $143.9 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $53.0 million. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During 2007, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, with a resulting gain of 74 Table of Contents approximately $52.1 million. These gains are presented in development profits, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership owned approximately 77.4 million square feet of its properties (49.9% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 20 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. In March 2008, the partners of AMB/Erie, L.P., sold their interests in the partnership to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., including its final real estate asset, for a gain of $20.0 million. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Ownership Planned Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT III, Inc. 23 % $ 3,270,000 (2) AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS Institutional investors 21 % $ 1,260,000 (2) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 1,498,000 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 602,000 AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 85,000 (3) (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. (2) The planned capitalization and investment capacity of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, as open ended funds is not limited. The planned capitalization represents the gross book value of real estate assets as of the most recent quarter end. (3) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the planned capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2009 was the gross book value as of December 31, 2009 plus the estimated investment of $5.1 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the operating partnership also had a 100% consolidated interest in G. Accion, a Mexican real estate company, which has been renamed AMB Property Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (AMB 75 Table of Contents Property Mexico). AMB Property Mexico owns and develops real estate and provides real estate management and development services in Mexico. On June 13, 2008, the operating partnership acquired approximately 19% of additional equity interest and on July 18, 2008, it acquired the remaining equity interest (approximately 42%) in AMB Property Mexico, increasing its equity interest from approximately 39% to 100%. Through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, the operating partnership held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $18.7 million and $24.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market equity, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.1 billion, excluding insignificant unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.1 billion of secured debt, $771.3 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2009, bore interest at rates varying from 0.7% to 9.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.5%) and had final maturity dates ranging from February 2010 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2009, $622.4 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4%), while the remaining $474.1 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.0%). As of December 31, 2009, $610.5 million of the secured debt was held by co investment ventures. On September 4, 2008, the operating partnership entered into a $230.0 million secured term loan credit agreement set to mature on September 4, 2010. In December 2009, the operating partnership paid off the entire balance under this facility. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $482.9 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and had an average term of 2.8 years. Other debt also includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $50.0 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Of the remaining $432.9 million outstanding in other debt, $425.0 million is related to the loan facility described below. 76 Table of Contents In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the facility had an outstanding balance of $417.7 million, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2009. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. If the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. However, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay 77 Table of Contents its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, continued turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on June 1, 2010. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The line carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and the facility can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 15.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital 78 Table of Contents requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility was $55.5 million and the remaining amount available was $481.7 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $12.8 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.70%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The extension option is also subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 15.0 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009, was $182.9 million, and the remaining amount available was $408.4 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, and Euros with the ability to add Indian rupees. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and can be increased to up to $750.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009, was approximately $239.2 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%, and the remaining amount available was $260.8 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2009. 79 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Consolidated Joint Venture Unsecured Total Unconsolidated Senior Credit Other Secured Secured Other Consolidated Joint Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt 2010 $ 65,000 $ 238,429 $ 2,112 $ 189,562 $ 131,497 $ $ 626,600 $ 197,198 $ 823,798 2011 69,000 239,201 2,186 88,284 120,355 519,026 620,324 1,139,350 2012 426,385 27,764 388,113 50,000 892,262 449,870 1,342,132 2013 293,897 920 19,611 49,938 364,366 712,750 1,077,116 2014 616 5,659 6,275 855,551 861,826 2015 112,491 664 17,610 130,765 264,519 395,284 2016 250,000 16,231 266,231 73,102 339,333 2017 1,272 1,272 351,639 352,911 2018 125,000 1,455 126,455 183,194 309,649 2019 250,000 250,000 250,000 Thereafter 39,154 39,154 5,844 44,998 Subtotal $ 1,165,388 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,221 $ 771,284 $ 50,000 $ 3,222,406 $ 3,713,991 $ 6,936,397 Unamortized net (discount) premium (9,859 ) 273 (224 ) (9,810 ) (4,513 ) (14,323 ) Subtotal $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 771,060 $ 50,000 $ 3,212,596 $ 3,709,478 $ 6,922,074 Joint venture partners share of debt (433,601 ) (40,000 ) (473,601 ) (2,868,120 ) (3,341,721 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 337,459 $ 10,000 $ 2,738,995 $ 841,358 $ 3,580,353 Weighted average interest rate 6.4 % 0.8 % 3.9 % 3.5 % 4.9 % 5.8 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.7 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.0 2.8 1.0 2.7 2.7 3.5 4.1 3.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.6 billion. Includes $175.5 million of U.S. dollar borrowings, as well as $182.9 million, $93.0 million and $26.2 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 80 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2010 through 2013, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 65,000 $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 Credit Facilities 238,429 239,201 Other Debt 427,635 1,916 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 188,445 (3) 87,667 28,648 20,466 Subtotal 253,445 395,096 695,484 316,279 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 2,559 (4) 39,786 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 10,029 (5) 31,022 5,555 93,712 AMB SGP, L.P. 42,064 293,700 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 56,408 42,353 8,506 Subtotal 68,996 115,439 307,761 133,498 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 27,157 (6) 184,580 77,660 287,002 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 112,004 204,502 179,852 344,432 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 58,825 167,180 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 9,059 31,995 58,771 AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 6,381 5,018 Subtotal 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total Consolidated 322,441 510,535 1,003,245 449,777 Total Unconsolidated 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total $ 470,661 $ 990,437 $ 1,434,318 $ 1,145,000 Total Operating Partnerships Share(7) $ 323,530 $ 558,967 $ 940,365 $ 513,611 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2013, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Subsequent to year end, 10.2 billion yen ($109.7 million using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) was repaid. (4) Subsequent to year end, $2.6 million was repaid at maturity. (5) Subsequent to year end, $4.7 million was refinanced and extended to maturity in 2014. (6) Subsequent to year end, $27.2 million was repaid. (7) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2010 through 2013 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. 81 Table of Contents Market Capital as of December 31, 2009 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 149,028,965 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,807,690 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,405,106 $ 3,893,950 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 46.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 49.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.6% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 46.4% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total book capitalization is defined as the operating partnerships share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership 82 Table of Contents unitholders plus stockholders equity. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $187.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $18.9 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2009, approximately $159.4 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units $ 2.69 $ 3.59 $ 3.64 The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash 83 Table of Contents distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Distributions paid to partners (139,515 ) (224,549 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (18,771 ) (61,934 ) (137,722 ) Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 54 years. The buildings and improvements subject to these ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2010 $ 37,603 2011 35,943 2012 33,085 2013 31,393 2014 28,769 Thereafter 435,722 Total $ 602,515 84 Table of Contents Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in five unconsolidated co investment ventures of $392.6 million and a gross book value of $6.6 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $24.6 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This would increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. 85 Table of Contents Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 The Americas: Acres 4 197 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,537,632 Investment(1) $ 1,539 $ 88,436 Europe: Acres 2 72 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 67,805 1,613,087 Investment(1) $ 5,656 $ 66,850 Asia: Acres 38 111 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 4,371,377 Investment(1) $ 17,032 $ 61,776 Total: Acres 44 380 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,143,624 9,522,096 Investment(1) $ 24,227 $ 217,062 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Acquisition activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Number of properties acquired by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 8 Square feet 1,622,649 Expected investment $ $ 171,694 Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 3 Square feet 848,313 Expected investment $ $ 154,499 Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 10 Square feet 2,830,936 Expected investment $ $ 217,044 Total number of properties acquired 21 Total square feet 5,301,898 Total acquisition cost $ $ 529,574 Total acquisition capital 13,663 Total expected investment(1) $ $ 543,237 (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar 86 Table of Contents investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 626,600 $ 1,411,288 $ 370,641 $ 813,877 $ 3,222,406 Debt interest payments 19,894 54,756 22,136 50,543 147,329 Operating lease commitments 37,603 69,028 60,162 435,722 602,515 Total $ 684,097 $ 1,535,072 $ 452,939 $ 1,300,142 $ 3,972,250 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2009, the company had provided approximately $15.2 million in letters of credit, of which $12.8 million were provided under the operating partnerships $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 7 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $415.6 million as described below. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.4 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2009, the company also guaranteed $47.9 million and $106.7 million on outstanding loans on six of its consolidated joint ventures and four of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2009. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $5.1 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. 87 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations (FFO) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit (FFOPS) The company believes that net (loss) income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, or FFO, and FFO per share and unit, or FFOPS, to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS as FFO per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO as net (loss) income available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in FFO. However, the companys interpretation of FFO or FFOPS may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to FFO or FFOPS reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO. The company believes that FFO and FFOPS are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, FFO and FFOPS are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net (loss) income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of FFO and FFOPS, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers FFO and FFOPS to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO and FFOPS can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO and FFOPS are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, FFO and FFOPS do not represent cash flow from operations or net (loss) income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. FFO and FFOPS also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are FFO and FFOPS necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of FFO and FFOPS by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of FFO and FFOPS and a reconciliation of FFO and FFOPS to net (loss) income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 88 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) $ 305,241 Net loss (income) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership 789 782 (11,689 ) Net (loss) income available to common stockholders of the parent company (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (38,718 ) (22,561 ) (85,559 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Discontinued operations depreciation 2,042 5,011 6,436 Non real estate depreciation (8,593 ) (7,270 ) (5,623 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net income) 11,063 32,855 27,235 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net (loss) income) (3,625 ) (5,063 ) 6,019 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development gains) 2,377 2,822 7,148 FFO attributable to noncontrolling interests (26,695 ) (49,957 ) (62,902 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net loss (11,331 ) (17,121 ) (7,467 ) The companys share of FFO 42,938 42,742 27,391 Allocation to participating securities(1) (418 ) Funds from operations $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 Basic FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.78 $ 3.58 Diluted FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.77 $ 3.49 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 137,740,825 101,253,972 101,550,001 Diluted 137,903,929 102,734,827 103,961,648 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO distributed through declared dividends and allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 918,753, 855,919 and 652,838 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines net operating income, or NOI, as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment 89 Table of Contents losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers same store net operating income, or SS NOI, and cash basis SS NOI to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis. The company defines cash basis SS NOI as SS NOI excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2007. The company considers cash basis SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI help investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI and cash basis SSNOI are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, they do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI also do not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI. The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net (loss) income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) $ 371,716 Private capital revenues (37,879 ) (68,470 ) (31,707 ) Depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Real estate impairment losses 174,410 183,754 900 General and administrative and fund costs 116,315 145,040 130,584 Restructuring charges 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 90,484 20,213 (95,235 ) Total discontinued operations (94,725 ) (4,558 ) (83,450 ) Net operating income 406,907 445,723 450,098 Less non same store NOI (77,719 ) (96,766 ) (28,414 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (398 ) (891 ) (6,214 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 328,790 $ 348,066 $ 415,470 Less lease termination fees (2,613 ) (5,498 ) (327 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 326,177 $ 342,568 $ 415,143 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. 90 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, the company had one outstanding interest rate swap, four outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts and two interest rate caps with an aggregate notional amount of $836.4 million (in U.S. dollars). See Financial Instruments below. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $9.8 million as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 194,579 $ 135,794 $ 507,872 $ 344,755 $ 6,275 $ 783,792 $ 1,973,067 $ 1,964,410 Average interest rate 7.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 6.4 % 6.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 432,021 $ 383,232 $ 384,390 $ 19,611 $ $ 30,085 $ 1,249,339 $ 1,223,420 Average interest rate 1.2 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 1.9 % % 1.7 % 1.8 % n/a Interest payments $ 19,894 $ 14,329 $ 40,427 $ 21,711 $ 425 $ 50,543 $ 147,329 n/a (1) Represents 61.2% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. (2) Represents 38.8% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $2.3 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, variable rate debt comprised 38.8% and 38.0%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2009 were one interest rate swap and two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 91 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands): March 31, September 4, November 1, October 1, Notional Related Derivatives 2010 2010 2010 2012 Amount Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 Receive Floating(%) 3 mo. US LIBOR Pay Fixed Rate(%) 2.70 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ (1,992 ) $ (1,992 ) Interest Rate Caps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 7,319 $ 7,319 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 3.15 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ Trade Notional Amount $ 26,500 $ 26,500 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 4.25 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ 141 $ 141 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts FX Forward Contract, Euro Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 339,732 $ 339,732 Forward Strike Rate 1.4380 3/31/2010 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.4328 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 1,228 $ 1,228 FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 189,879 $ 189,879 Forward Strike Rate 1.0467 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ (20 ) $ (20 ) FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 74,053 $ 74,053 Forward Strike Rate 1.0463 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 16 $ 16 FX Forward Contract, GBP Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 68,949 $ 68,949 Forward Strike Rate 1.6208 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.6169 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 168 $ 168 $ 836,432 $ (459 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The (losses) gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $(22.0) million and $23.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange 92 Table of Contents rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $(7.2) million, $(5.7) million and $3.9 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 49 Table of Contents SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA (1) (AMB Property, L.P.) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the operating partnership on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) 2005 (dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,842 $ 693,563 $ 650,886 $ 694,372 $ 630,643 (Loss) income from continuing operations(3) (122,685 ) (11,308 ) 288,266 216,304 190,159 Income from discontinued operations 94,725 4,558 83,450 72,509 158,455 Net (loss) income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 348,614 Net (loss) income (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 348,614 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders (50,866 ) (67,233 ) 305,241 217,419 262,381 (Loss) income from continuing operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (1.02 ) (0.69 ) 2.20 1.59 1.20 Diluted (1.02 ) (0.69 ) 2.15 1.54 1.15 Net income from discontinued operations available to common uniholders per common unit: Basic 0.65 0.03 0.81 0.77 1.76 Diluted 0.65 0.03 0.79 0.74 1.69 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 3.01 2.36 2.96 Diluted (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 2.94 2.28 2.84 Distributions declared per common unit 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 1.76 Weighted average common units outstanding basic 136,484,612 101,253,972 101,550,001 92,047,678 88,684,262 Weighted average common units outstanding diluted 136,484,612 101,253,972 103,961,648 95,297,815 92,368,922 Other Data Funds from operations(4) $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 $ 295,893 $ 252,752 Funds from operations per common unit:(4) Basic 0.72 0.78 3.58 3.21 2.85 Diluted 0.72 0.77 3.49 3.10 2.74 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 242,276 301,020 240,543 335,855 295,815 Investing activities 75,129 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) (60,407 ) Financing activities (288,549 ) 581,765 420,025 483,621 (101,856 ) Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 $ 6,798,294 Total assets 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 6,802,739 Total consolidated debt 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 3,401,561 Operating partnerships share of total debt(5) 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 2,601,878 Preferred units 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 175,548 Partners capital (excluding preferred units) 2,755,165 2,342,526 2,610,574 2,095,835 1,904,730 (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per unit calculations. (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because 50 Table of Contents of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, included in the operating partnerships operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) (Loss) income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $174.4 million and $183.8 million, respectively, and restructuring charges of $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO when assessing the operating partnerships financial performance, and FFOs limitations as a measurement tool. (5) Operating partnerships share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the operating partnerships leverage and to compare the operating partnerships leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 51 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements Overview Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company began to be impacted by the economic, financial and real estate market crisis. To maintain its competitive advantage, the company established three key near term priorities for 2009 which included: strengthening its balance sheet and liquidity position; reducing its cost structure; and positioning for future growth opportunities. Management believes that in 2009 it successfully executed on these near term priorities, which enabled the company to navigate through a challenging environment, and that the company is now positioned to pursue growth opportunities. As such, the company has established three key growth initiatives for 2010, which include: improving the utilization of its existing assets; acquiring industrial real estate with total returns above the companys cost of capital; and forming new private capital ventures and funds. Management believes that the leading indicators for economic recovery reached an inflection point during the fourth quarter and expects that improving economic conditions will lead to an increase in the demand for industrial real estate. Management expects to see earnings growth if it is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the build out and leasing of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is evaluating multiple transactions in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. The company is also observing a positive shift in investor interest and believes that this growing level of interest is being met by the scarcity of high quality, well located industrial real estate. Management believes that its existing and new private capital funds and ventures are well positioned to benefit from this shift in investor preferences. The Companys Liquidity and Balance Sheet Management believes that the companys financial position is strong and its debt maturity schedule is well laddered. During 2009, the company completed approximately $2.7 billion of debt repayments, repurchases and extensions, of which $1.6 billion occurred in the fourth quarter. Notable transactions during 2009, which further strengthened the companys liquidity position included: The issuance and sale of 47.4 million shares of its common stock for net proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, during the first quarter; The issuance of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes consisting of a $250.0 million tranche at 6.13% due 2016 and a $250.0 million tranche at 6.63% due 2019; The refinancing of its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012, which was subsequently upsized to $425.0 million in December 2009; The early repayment of its $230.0 million secured term loan facility originally due September 2010; The completion of the repurchase of $213.6 million in bonds including $168.9 million in connection with its cash tender offer of notes due 2011 and 2013 and $44.7 million of open market repurchases of notes due 2010 and 2013 with a weighted average yield to maturity of 4.74%, and the completion of a cash tender offer for $146.5 million and $28.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships 5.45% medium term notes due 2010 and 8.0% medium term notes due 2010, respectively; and 52 Table of Contents The purchase of AMB Property II, L.P.s outstanding 7.18% series D cumulative redeemable preferred units in exchange for 2.9 million shares of the parent companys common stock for an aggregate price of $67.8 million, which represented a 15% discount to the liquidation preference. As a result of its 2009 financing activity, the company reduced its share of total debt to its share of total assets to 43.6% from 51.1% and extended the weighted average remaining life of over 25% of its debt to more than five and a half years at an average interest rate of 4.9%. Having resolved its near term maturities, the company embarked on a strategy, during the fourth quarter, to further lengthen its maturity schedule to minimize its debt maturities through 2013. Management believes this strategy will provide it with maximum flexibility and further position the company to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. As of December 31, 2009, the companys total consolidated debt maturities for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) were $322.4 million, excluding principal amortization. The company had unconsolidated debt maturities of $148.2 million for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) as of December 31, 2009, excluding principal amortization. During 2009, the company disposed of $762.9 million of properties with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 6.8%. During the fourth quarter, the company completed dispositions totaling $92.9 million, with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 8.2%. During 2009, the company increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the company had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%, and had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $206.1 million. The Companys Cost Structure To address the challenges of the current business environment, the company implemented a broad based cost reduction plan that began in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of this plan, the company reduced its total global headcount by approximately one third and reduced gross GA costs by approximately $60.0 million on a run rate basis as of December 31, 2009. In executing these cost saving efforts, the company believes that it has preserved its ability to serve its global customers and manage its industrial operating and development portfolios. While the company has removed excess capacity in its capital deployment teams, it believes that it has retained its key talent and left its global capabilities intact. During the fourth quarter, the company began the process of outsourcing various global property accounting and certain back office functions. The company believes that this initiative will improve the efficiency, cost structure and scalability of its back office operations. The company incurred $2.5 million in severance costs during the fourth quarter and expects to realize $2 3 million of additional restructuring costs in 2010 related to completing this initiative. Management believes that it will produce approximately $5.0 million in annual savings upon the completion of this initiative. Real Estate Operations During 2009, industrial property fundamentals were the most challenging on record. According to data provided by CBRE Econometric Advisors as of January 25, 2010, availability in the United States reached a historical high of 13.9% for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, up 40 basis points from the prior quarter and 250 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year 2009, industrial net absorption was negative 265 million square feet, the lowest on record. The negative trend decelerated over the course of the year, slowing to a negative 38 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Within the U.S., the company believes that its coastal markets will continue to outperform other U.S. industrial markets, as evidenced by flat net absorption and availability unchanged at 12.1% in the fourth quarter. The company continues to believe that the primary infill markets tied to global trade remain relatively strong. Also according to CBRE Econometric Advisors, new construction was at an all time low of 71 million square feet for 2009 and 15.2 million square feet for the fourth quarter. While the company expects the delivery pipeline to continue to decline, the company expects net absorption to be positive in the second half of 2010. At the end of the 53 Table of Contents third quarter, the global market fundamentals began to show early signs of stability. Globally, industrial demand is still soft, but management believes that it is seeing signs of increased customer activity and decision making. Market occupancy declines are slowing globally and leasing activity has increased. Market rents remain lower than a year ago and the company expects rent changes on rollovers to continue to trend down through 2010. Current forecasts for 2010, according to the IMF, indicate that global GDP is expected to increase by 3.9% and global trade by 6%, all of which should lead to inventory rebuilding and demand for industrial real estate. The company believes that while the leading indicators for demand for industrial real estate have reached an inflection point, recovery in operating fundamentals will lag behind the recovery in the macro economy as it has in prior cycles. Management expects that its operating fundamentals in the first half of 2010 will be consistent with occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2009 before improving by the end of 2010. Rent changes on rollover are expected to be negative for 2010. For 2009, the company generated $406.9 million of net operating income, on a consolidated basis, from its real estate operations. The companys owned and managed portfolio occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 91.2%, up 20 basis points from September 30, 2009. Average occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 90.7%, up 30 basis points from the three months ended September 30, 2009. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, rent changes on rollovers in the companys industrial operating portfolio declined by 11.5% on an owned and managed basis, excluding expense reimbursements, rental abatements, percentage rents and straight line rents. Rental rates on lease renewals and rollovers in the companys portfolio declined by 6.9% for the trailing four quarters ended December 31, 2009. During the quarter, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees, decreased by 7.3% and 4.5% for the full year 2009 on an owned and managed basis. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees decreased 8.9% for the fourth quarter and 4.7% for the full year 2009. See Supplemental Earnings Measures below for a discussion of cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of cash basis same store net operating income and net income. As of December 31, 2009, the accounts receivable levels were consistent with historical levels, during recessionary periods, and management believes that the accounts receivable are leveling and that it continues to maintain adequate bad debt reserves. Although the number of bankruptcies of its customers increased during 2009, the company believes the impact of such bankruptcies on its business was not significant for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. Private Capital Business For the year ended December 31, 2009, the company generated private capital revenues of $37.9 million, of which $10.5 million occurred in the fourth quarter. During the first quarter, the company contributed one $185.0 million development project to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the third quarter, the company transferred two assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional units equal to the fair value of the assets, for an aggregate price of $32.5 million, increasing its ownership interest in the fund to 22.7% from 19.3%. Subsequent to year end, the companys two open ended funds completed approximately $267.0 million in net capital transactions consisting of: $50.0 million in new third party equity in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; $67.0 million in investor elected redemption withdrawals, thereby reducing AMB Institutional Alliance Fund IIIs redemption queue to $14.9 million as of February 1, 2010; the companys $100.0 million investment in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; and its $50.0 million investment in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS. Equityholders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. Development Business Given the uncertainty in the global economy during 2009, the company limited its development activity to previously committed projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company commenced development 54 Table of Contents on four previously committed development projects for a total estimated investment cost of $60.6 million. In addition to its committed development pipeline, as of December 31, 2009, the company held a total of 2,488 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 85% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,488 acres of land could support approximately 45.1 million square feet of future development. Impairment Charges The company recognized real estate impairment charges on certain of its assets of $181.9 million in the first quarter of 2009 and of $193.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2009. Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company completed the following significant capital deployment and other transactions: Contributed one completed development project aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for an aggregate price of approximately $184.8 million (using the exchange rate in effect on the date of contribution) to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, including 1.1 million square feet that was held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, and three land parcels totaling 35 acres for an aggregate sales price of $347.5 million; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.9 million square feet, including 0.6 million square feet that were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, for an aggregate sales price of $198.1 million; and Transferred two development assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional partnership units equal to the fair value of the assets for an aggregate price of $32.5 million and aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with new guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or 56 Table of Contents cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. 57 Table of Contents Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2007 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2009, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 63.8 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Acquired: Square feet (in thousands) 2,831 702 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ $ 217,044 $ 62,241 Development Properties Sold or Contributed: Square feet (in thousands) 3,387 5,274 8,600 For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 473.8 $ 533.5 $ (59.7 ) (11.2 )% 2008 acquisitions 19.5 11.0 8.5 77.3 % Development 50.9 21.8 29.1 133.5 % Other industrial 51.8 58.8 (7.0 ) (11.9 )% Total rental revenues 596.0 625.1 (29.1 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 37.9 68.5 (30.6 ) (44.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.9 $ 693.6 $ (59.7 ) (8.6 )% Same store rental revenues decreased $59.7 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $494.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $20.8 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in revenues from prior year acquisitions is due to revenues recognized for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in rental revenues from development of $29.1 million is 58 Table of Contents primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The decrease in these revenues of $7.0 million primarily reflects a decline in occupancy in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.6 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions of $2.9 million for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 109.9 $ 100.5 $ 9.4 9.4 % Real estate taxes 79.1 78.9 0.2 0.3 % Total property operating costs $ 189.0 $ 179.4 $ 9.6 5.4 % Property operating costs Same store $ 143.6 $ 149.6 $ (6.0 ) (4.0 )% 2008 acquisitions 7.8 3.1 4.7 151.6 % Development 21.3 7.7 13.6 176.6 % Other industrial 16.3 19.0 (2.7 ) (14.2 )% Total property operating costs 189.0 179.4 9.6 5.4 % Depreciation and amortization 179.9 164.2 15.7 9.6 % General and administrative 115.3 144.0 (28.7 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 174.4 183.7 (9.3 ) (5.1 )% Other expenses 10.2 0.5 9.7 1,940.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 676.3 $ 685.2 $ (8.9 ) (1.3 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $139.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The increase of $3.9 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to an increase in common area maintenance expenses and ground rent expense. The increase in expenses of $4.7 million related to properties acquired in 2008 is due to the recognition of expenses for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in development operating costs of $13.6 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. The decrease in other industrial operating costs of $2.7 million was primarily due to the disposition of industrial operating properties during 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $15.7 million is primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.7 million is primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and 59 Table of Contents the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. Other expenses increased $9.7 million primarily as a result of an increase in the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan expenses of $15.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs of $5.8 million from prior year. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expenses) 6.3 (3.1 ) 9.4 303.2 % Interest expense, including amortization (121.4 ) (134.0 ) (12.6 ) (9.4 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.2 ) $ (19.7 ) $ (60.5 ) (307.1 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income increased $9.4 million from the prior year primarily due to a $15.7 million increase in gains related to the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income of $4.7 million due to lower cash balances and interest rates and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $12.6 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 3.0 $ 2.0 $ 1.0 50.0 % Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 94.7 $ 4.6 $ 90.1 1,958.7 % The increase in income attributable to discontinued operations of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in real estate impairment losses on properties sold in 2009 or held for sale as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 60 Table of Contents 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 62.0 % On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 533.5 $ 555.0 $ (21.5 ) (3.9 )% 2008 acquisitions 11.0 11.0 100.0 % Development 21.8 7.3 14.5 198.6 % Other industrial 58.8 56.9 1.9 3.3 % Total rental revenues 625.1 619.2 5.9 1.0 % Private capital revenues 68.5 31.7 36.8 116.1 % Total revenues $ 693.6 $ 650.9 $ 42.7 6.6 % Same store rental revenues decreased $21.5 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $573.3 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $18.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased rental rates and decreases in free rent. The increase in rental revenues from development of $14.5 million is primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $1.9 million primarily reflects the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation and higher rent levels during 2008. The increase in private capital revenues of $36.8 million was primarily due to the receipt of an incentive distribution of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an 61 Table of Contents incentive distribution of $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and an increase in asset management fees as a result of an increase in total unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition fees. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 100.5 $ 95.9 $ 4.6 4.8 % Real estate taxes 78.9 73.2 5.7 7.8 % Total property operating costs $ 179.4 $ 169.1 $ 10.3 6.1 % Property operating costs Same store $ 149.6 $ 155.3 $ (5.7 ) (3.7 )% 2008 acquisitions 3.1 3.1 100.0 % Development 7.7 2.9 4.8 165.5 % Other industrial 19.0 10.9 8.1 74.3 % Total property operating costs 179.4 169.1 10.3 6.1 % Depreciation and amortization 164.2 157.3 6.9 4.4 % General and administrative 144.0 129.5 14.5 11.2 % Restructuring charges 12.3 12.3 100.0 % Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 183.7 0.9 182.8 20,311.1 % Other expenses 0.5 5.1 (4.6 ) (90.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 685.2 $ 463.0 $ 222.2 48.0 % Same store properties operating expenses decreased $5.7 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $159.9 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $4.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, ground rent expenses and non reimbursable expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $4.8 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $8.1 million was primarily due to an increase in the number of properties that have reached these levels of operations. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $6.9 million was primarily due to the recognition of $4.3 million of depreciation expense resulting from the reclassification of $76.7 million from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2008 and asset stabilizations, as well as the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $14.5 million was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs, resulting from increased employee headcount in the first three quarters of 2008 as well as an increase in professional services, and taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recorded $12.3 million in restructuring charges due to the implementation of a broad based cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The increase in real estate impairment losses was primarily a result of changes in the economic environment in addition to the write off of pursuit costs. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to 62 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in other expenses of $4.6 million was primarily due to a loss on our non qualified deferred compensation plans during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a gain during the year ended December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 81.1 $ 124.3 $ (43.2 ) (34.8 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 73.4 (53.4 ) (72.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.1 7.5 9.6 128.0 % Other income (expenses) (3.1 ) 22.3 (25.4 ) (113.9 )% Interest expense, including amortization (134.0 ) (126.8 ) 7.2 5.7 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (0.8 ) (0.4 ) 0.4 100.0 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (19.7 ) $ 100.3 $ (120.0 ) (119.6 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed 4.2 million square feet in industrial operating properties into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, contributed one 0.2 million square foot industrial operating property into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and contributed one industrial operating property aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet into AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, for a total of approximately $524.9 million. As a result of these contributions, the company recognized gains from the contribution of real estate interests of approximately $73.4 million, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the contribution of the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, as well as growth in the companys unconsolidated assets under management. Other income (expenses) decreased $25.4 million from the prior year primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate loss, a loss on the companys nonqualified deferred compensation plan of $7.8 million, the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on impairment of an investment and a decrease in interest income of approximately $3.3 million, partially offset by an increase in third party management fees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company recognized a gain on currency remeasurement of approximately $3.9 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in 2008. Additionally, other income during the year ended December 31, 2007 included insurance proceeds of approximately $2.9 million related to losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Interest expense increased $7.2 million as a result of increased total consolidated debt at December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 2.0 $ 19.2 $ (17.2 ) (89.6 )% Development profits, net of taxes 52.1 (52.1 ) 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 2.6 12.1 (9.5 ) (78.5 )% Total discontinued operations $ 4.6 $ 83.4 $ (78.8 ) (94.5 )% 63 Table of Contents The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $17.2 million for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to $10.2 million of real estate impairment losses on assets sold in 2008 and held for sale as of December 31, 2008, as well as a decrease in sales and contributions of industrial operating properties in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of $12.1 million, and value added conversion projects for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $52.1 million. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption premium (2.9 ) 2.9 (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (18.7 ) $ 2.9 (15.5 )% On April 17, 2007, the operating partnership redeemed all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series J cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units and all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series K cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. In addition, AMB Property II, L.P., one of the operating partnerships subsidiaries, repurchased all 510,000 of its outstanding 8.00% series I cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. As a result of the redemptions and repurchase, the company recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $2.9 million for the original issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned an approximate 97.8% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 2.2% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its 64 Table of Contents investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created co investment ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2009: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. In December 2007, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock, which terminated on December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the parent company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $87.7 million at a weighted average price of $49.64 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $53.4 million at a weighted average price of $49.87 per share. In March 2009, the parent company completed the issuance of 47.4 million shares of its common stock at a price of $12.15 per share for proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. The proceeds from the offering were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. 65 Table of Contents Market Equity as of December 31, 2009 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 149,258,376 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,813,552 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,634,517 $ 3,899,812 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market 66 Table of Contents price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 49.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.6% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total book capitalization is defined as the parent companys share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership unitholders plus stockholders equity. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of AMB Property, L.P. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt Guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships 67 Table of Contents liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 68 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (21,178 ) (66,007 ) (137,722 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In May 2008, the operating partnership sold $325.0 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes under its Series C medium term note program. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitation on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to $425.0 million of its other debt, related to the following loan facility. In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. The facility includes Euro and Yen tranches, with both the multi currency and the U.S. dollar components currently priced at 275 basis points over the applicable LIBOR index. This facility contains limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility, 69 Table of Contents which, as of December 31, 2009, had a balance of $55.5 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.68%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $182.9 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.7%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to further increase the facility to $750.0 million, to extend the maturity date to July 2011 and to allow for future borrowing in Indian rupees. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $239.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and 70 Table of Contents net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash provided by operating activities was $242.3 million as compared to $301.0 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to lower net operating income in 2009 as well as changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash provided by investing activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $881.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to an increase in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and decreases in the following: cash paid for property acquisitions, additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs, loans made to affiliated entities and the purchase of equity interests. This is partially offset by the decrease in repayment of mortgage and loan receivables. Cash used in financing activities was $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $581.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net borrowings on secured debt, other debt and unsecured credit facilities and an increase in payments on senior debt. This activity was partially offset by an increase in net proceeds from issuances of senior debt, an increase in the issuance of common and preferred units, a decrease in the repurchase of common units, and a decrease in distributions paid to common and preferred unitholders and noncontrolling interests. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding 149,028,965 common general partnership units; 2,119,928 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. 71 Table of Contents The net proceeds from the parent companys March 2009 offering of 47.4 million shares of common stock were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. The operating partnership used the proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities. The proceeds were approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions on a consolidated basis during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 1 Square feet 3,685,677 396,710 Estimated investment(1) $ 264,697 $ 17,396 Sold: Number of projects 3 2 Square feet 774,663 158,871 Estimated investment(1) $ 62,695 $ 37,686 Contributed: Number of projects 4 Square feet 2,122,056 Estimated investment $ $ 139,316 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 24 19 Square feet 6,669,855 5,834,143 Estimated investment(1) $ 567,634 $ 751,028 Total: Number of projects 38 26 Square feet 11,130,195 8,511,780 Estimated investment(1) $ 895,026 $ 945,426 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Square feet 1,977,185 73,927 498,017 Gross sales price $ 293,846 $ 26,116 $ 222,963 Net proceeds $ 254,888 $ 23,557 $ 208,795 Development profits, net of taxes $ 59,068 $ 7,235 $ 80,706 72 Table of Contents Development contribution activity during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Number of projects contributed to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 2 4 4 Square feet 428,180 2,723,003 1,006,164 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 2 Square feet 1,421,043 329,114 Number of land parcels contributed to AMB DFS Fund I, LLC 2 Square feet Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 2 8 Square feet 164,574 1,838,011 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 1 Square feet 981,162 891,596 469,627 Total number of contributed development assets 3 11 17 Total square feet 1,409,342 5,200,216 3,642,916 Gross contribution price $ 217,293 $ 374,878 $ 397,389 Net proceeds $ 56,822 $ 254,791 $ 378,531 Development profits, net of taxes $ 29,808 $ 73,849 $ 95,713 Development Sales and Contributions. During 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $59.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects and land parcels, aggregating approximately 2.0 million square feet. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $28.6 million as a result of the sale of development projects and 76 acres of land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $95.7 million, as a result of the contribution of 15 completed development projects and two land parcels, aggregating approximately 82 acres of land, to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. Also during 2008, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During 2007, the operating partnership contributed operating properties for approximately $524.9 million, aggregating approximately 4.5 million square feet, into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. The operating partnership also recognized a gain of $73.4 million in 2007 on the contributions, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third 73 Table of Contents party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for sale two properties with an aggregate net book value of $8.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 96% to an expected range of 15 20%. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 20 properties with an aggregate net book value of $600.8 million. As of December 31, 2009, no properties were reclassified from held for sale and properties with an aggregate net book value of $143.9 million were reclassified from held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, properties with an aggregate net book value of $100.4 million were reclassified from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $2.2 million as a result of the reclassification, as well as impairment charges of $21.8 million on real estate assets held for divestiture or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. During 2007, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $12.1 million. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the statements of operations. Value added Conversion Sales. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, including approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres, for an aggregate price of $143.9 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $53.0 million. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During 2007, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, with a resulting gain of 74 Table of Contents approximately $52.1 million. These gains are presented in development profits, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership owned approximately 77.4 million square feet of its properties (49.9% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 20 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. In March 2008, the partners of AMB/Erie, L.P., sold their interests in the partnership to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., including its final real estate asset, for a gain of $20.0 million. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Ownership Planned Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT III, Inc. 23 % $ 3,270,000 (2) AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS Institutional investors 21 % $ 1,260,000 (2) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 1,498,000 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 602,000 AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 85,000 (3) (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. (2) The planned capitalization and investment capacity of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, as open ended funds is not limited. The planned capitalization represents the gross book value of real estate assets as of the most recent quarter end. (3) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the planned capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2009 was the gross book value as of December 31, 2009 plus the estimated investment of $5.1 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the operating partnership also had a 100% consolidated interest in G. Accion, a Mexican real estate company, which has been renamed AMB Property Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (AMB 75 Table of Contents Property Mexico). AMB Property Mexico owns and develops real estate and provides real estate management and development services in Mexico. On June 13, 2008, the operating partnership acquired approximately 19% of additional equity interest and on July 18, 2008, it acquired the remaining equity interest (approximately 42%) in AMB Property Mexico, increasing its equity interest from approximately 39% to 100%. Through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, the operating partnership held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $18.7 million and $24.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market equity, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.1 billion, excluding insignificant unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.1 billion of secured debt, $771.3 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2009, bore interest at rates varying from 0.7% to 9.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.5%) and had final maturity dates ranging from February 2010 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2009, $622.4 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4%), while the remaining $474.1 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.0%). As of December 31, 2009, $610.5 million of the secured debt was held by co investment ventures. On September 4, 2008, the operating partnership entered into a $230.0 million secured term loan credit agreement set to mature on September 4, 2010. In December 2009, the operating partnership paid off the entire balance under this facility. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $482.9 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and had an average term of 2.8 years. Other debt also includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $50.0 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Of the remaining $432.9 million outstanding in other debt, $425.0 million is related to the loan facility described below. 76 Table of Contents In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the facility had an outstanding balance of $417.7 million, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2009. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. If the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. However, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay 77 Table of Contents its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, continued turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on June 1, 2010. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The line carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and the facility can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 15.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital 78 Table of Contents requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility was $55.5 million and the remaining amount available was $481.7 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $12.8 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.70%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The extension option is also subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 15.0 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009, was $182.9 million, and the remaining amount available was $408.4 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, and Euros with the ability to add Indian rupees. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and can be increased to up to $750.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009, was approximately $239.2 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%, and the remaining amount available was $260.8 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2009. 79 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Consolidated Joint Venture Unsecured Total Unconsolidated Senior Credit Other Secured Secured Other Consolidated Joint Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt 2010 $ 65,000 $ 238,429 $ 2,112 $ 189,562 $ 131,497 $ $ 626,600 $ 197,198 $ 823,798 2011 69,000 239,201 2,186 88,284 120,355 519,026 620,324 1,139,350 2012 426,385 27,764 388,113 50,000 892,262 449,870 1,342,132 2013 293,897 920 19,611 49,938 364,366 712,750 1,077,116 2014 616 5,659 6,275 855,551 861,826 2015 112,491 664 17,610 130,765 264,519 395,284 2016 250,000 16,231 266,231 73,102 339,333 2017 1,272 1,272 351,639 352,911 2018 125,000 1,455 126,455 183,194 309,649 2019 250,000 250,000 250,000 Thereafter 39,154 39,154 5,844 44,998 Subtotal $ 1,165,388 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,221 $ 771,284 $ 50,000 $ 3,222,406 $ 3,713,991 $ 6,936,397 Unamortized net (discount) premium (9,859 ) 273 (224 ) (9,810 ) (4,513 ) (14,323 ) Subtotal $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 771,060 $ 50,000 $ 3,212,596 $ 3,709,478 $ 6,922,074 Joint venture partners share of debt (433,601 ) (40,000 ) (473,601 ) (2,868,120 ) (3,341,721 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 337,459 $ 10,000 $ 2,738,995 $ 841,358 $ 3,580,353 Weighted average interest rate 6.4 % 0.8 % 3.9 % 3.5 % 4.9 % 5.8 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.7 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.0 2.8 1.0 2.7 2.7 3.5 4.1 3.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.6 billion. Includes $175.5 million of U.S. dollar borrowings, as well as $182.9 million, $93.0 million and $26.2 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 80 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2010 through 2013, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 65,000 $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 Credit Facilities 238,429 239,201 Other Debt 427,635 1,916 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 188,445 (3) 87,667 28,648 20,466 Subtotal 253,445 395,096 695,484 316,279 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 2,559 (4) 39,786 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 10,029 (5) 31,022 5,555 93,712 AMB SGP, L.P. 42,064 293,700 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 56,408 42,353 8,506 Subtotal 68,996 115,439 307,761 133,498 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 27,157 (6) 184,580 77,660 287,002 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 112,004 204,502 179,852 344,432 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 58,825 167,180 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 9,059 31,995 58,771 AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 6,381 5,018 Subtotal 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total Consolidated 322,441 510,535 1,003,245 449,777 Total Unconsolidated 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total $ 470,661 $ 990,437 $ 1,434,318 $ 1,145,000 Total Operating Partnerships Share(7) $ 323,530 $ 558,967 $ 940,365 $ 513,611 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2013, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Subsequent to year end, 10.2 billion yen ($109.7 million using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) was repaid. (4) Subsequent to year end, $2.6 million was repaid at maturity. (5) Subsequent to year end, $4.7 million was refinanced and extended to maturity in 2014. (6) Subsequent to year end, $27.2 million was repaid. (7) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2010 through 2013 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. 81 Table of Contents Market Capital as of December 31, 2009 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 149,028,965 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,807,690 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,405,106 $ 3,893,950 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 46.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 49.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.6% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 46.4% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total book capitalization is defined as the operating partnerships share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership 82 Table of Contents unitholders plus stockholders equity. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $187.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $18.9 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2009, approximately $159.4 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units $ 2.69 $ 3.59 $ 3.64 The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash 83 Table of Contents distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Distributions paid to partners (139,515 ) (224,549 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (18,771 ) (61,934 ) (137,722 ) Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 54 years. The buildings and improvements subject to these ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2010 $ 37,603 2011 35,943 2012 33,085 2013 31,393 2014 28,769 Thereafter 435,722 Total $ 602,515 84 Table of Contents Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in five unconsolidated co investment ventures of $392.6 million and a gross book value of $6.6 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $24.6 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This would increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. 85 Table of Contents Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 The Americas: Acres 4 197 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,537,632 Investment(1) $ 1,539 $ 88,436 Europe: Acres 2 72 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 67,805 1,613,087 Investment(1) $ 5,656 $ 66,850 Asia: Acres 38 111 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 4,371,377 Investment(1) $ 17,032 $ 61,776 Total: Acres 44 380 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,143,624 9,522,096 Investment(1) $ 24,227 $ 217,062 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Acquisition activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Number of properties acquired by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 8 Square feet 1,622,649 Expected investment $ $ 171,694 Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 3 Square feet 848,313 Expected investment $ $ 154,499 Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 10 Square feet 2,830,936 Expected investment $ $ 217,044 Total number of properties acquired 21 Total square feet 5,301,898 Total acquisition cost $ $ 529,574 Total acquisition capital 13,663 Total expected investment(1) $ $ 543,237 (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar 86 Table of Contents investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 626,600 $ 1,411,288 $ 370,641 $ 813,877 $ 3,222,406 Debt interest payments 19,894 54,756 22,136 50,543 147,329 Operating lease commitments 37,603 69,028 60,162 435,722 602,515 Total $ 684,097 $ 1,535,072 $ 452,939 $ 1,300,142 $ 3,972,250 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2009, the company had provided approximately $15.2 million in letters of credit, of which $12.8 million were provided under the operating partnerships $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 7 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $415.6 million as described below. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.4 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2009, the company also guaranteed $47.9 million and $106.7 million on outstanding loans on six of its consolidated joint ventures and four of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2009. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $5.1 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. 87 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations (FFO) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit (FFOPS) The company believes that net (loss) income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, or FFO, and FFO per share and unit, or FFOPS, to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS as FFO per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO as net (loss) income available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in FFO. However, the companys interpretation of FFO or FFOPS may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to FFO or FFOPS reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO. The company believes that FFO and FFOPS are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, FFO and FFOPS are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net (loss) income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of FFO and FFOPS, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers FFO and FFOPS to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO and FFOPS can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO and FFOPS are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, FFO and FFOPS do not represent cash flow from operations or net (loss) income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. FFO and FFOPS also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are FFO and FFOPS necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of FFO and FFOPS by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of FFO and FFOPS and a reconciliation of FFO and FFOPS to net (loss) income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 88 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) $ 305,241 Net loss (income) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership 789 782 (11,689 ) Net (loss) income available to common stockholders of the parent company (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (38,718 ) (22,561 ) (85,559 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Discontinued operations depreciation 2,042 5,011 6,436 Non real estate depreciation (8,593 ) (7,270 ) (5,623 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net income) 11,063 32,855 27,235 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net (loss) income) (3,625 ) (5,063 ) 6,019 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development gains) 2,377 2,822 7,148 FFO attributable to noncontrolling interests (26,695 ) (49,957 ) (62,902 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net loss (11,331 ) (17,121 ) (7,467 ) The companys share of FFO 42,938 42,742 27,391 Allocation to participating securities(1) (418 ) Funds from operations $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 Basic FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.78 $ 3.58 Diluted FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.77 $ 3.49 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 137,740,825 101,253,972 101,550,001 Diluted 137,903,929 102,734,827 103,961,648 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO distributed through declared dividends and allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 918,753, 855,919 and 652,838 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines net operating income, or NOI, as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment 89 Table of Contents losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers same store net operating income, or SS NOI, and cash basis SS NOI to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis. The company defines cash basis SS NOI as SS NOI excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2007. The company considers cash basis SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI help investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI and cash basis SSNOI are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, they do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI also do not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI. The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net (loss) income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) $ 371,716 Private capital revenues (37,879 ) (68,470 ) (31,707 ) Depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Real estate impairment losses 174,410 183,754 900 General and administrative and fund costs 116,315 145,040 130,584 Restructuring charges 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 90,484 20,213 (95,235 ) Total discontinued operations (94,725 ) (4,558 ) (83,450 ) Net operating income 406,907 445,723 450,098 Less non same store NOI (77,719 ) (96,766 ) (28,414 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (398 ) (891 ) (6,214 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 328,790 $ 348,066 $ 415,470 Less lease termination fees (2,613 ) (5,498 ) (327 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 326,177 $ 342,568 $ 415,143 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. 90 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, the company had one outstanding interest rate swap, four outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts and two interest rate caps with an aggregate notional amount of $836.4 million (in U.S. dollars). See Financial Instruments below. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $9.8 million as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 194,579 $ 135,794 $ 507,872 $ 344,755 $ 6,275 $ 783,792 $ 1,973,067 $ 1,964,410 Average interest rate 7.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 6.4 % 6.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 432,021 $ 383,232 $ 384,390 $ 19,611 $ $ 30,085 $ 1,249,339 $ 1,223,420 Average interest rate 1.2 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 1.9 % % 1.7 % 1.8 % n/a Interest payments $ 19,894 $ 14,329 $ 40,427 $ 21,711 $ 425 $ 50,543 $ 147,329 n/a (1) Represents 61.2% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. (2) Represents 38.8% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $2.3 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, variable rate debt comprised 38.8% and 38.0%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2009 were one interest rate swap and two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 91 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands): March 31, September 4, November 1, October 1, Notional Related Derivatives 2010 2010 2010 2012 Amount Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 Receive Floating(%) 3 mo. US LIBOR Pay Fixed Rate(%) 2.70 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ (1,992 ) $ (1,992 ) Interest Rate Caps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 7,319 $ 7,319 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 3.15 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ Trade Notional Amount $ 26,500 $ 26,500 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 4.25 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ 141 $ 141 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts FX Forward Contract, Euro Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 339,732 $ 339,732 Forward Strike Rate 1.4380 3/31/2010 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.4328 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 1,228 $ 1,228 FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 189,879 $ 189,879 Forward Strike Rate 1.0467 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ (20 ) $ (20 ) FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 74,053 $ 74,053 Forward Strike Rate 1.0463 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 16 $ 16 FX Forward Contract, GBP Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 68,949 $ 68,949 Forward Strike Rate 1.6208 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.6169 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 168 $ 168 $ 836,432 $ (459 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The (losses) gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $(22.0) million and $23.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange 92 Table of Contents rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $(7.2) million, $(5.7) million and $3.9 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 51 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements Overview Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company began to be impacted by the economic, financial and real estate market crisis. To maintain its competitive advantage, the company established three key near term priorities for 2009 which included: strengthening its balance sheet and liquidity position; reducing its cost structure; and positioning for future growth opportunities. Management believes that in 2009 it successfully executed on these near term priorities, which enabled the company to navigate through a challenging environment, and that the company is now positioned to pursue growth opportunities. As such, the company has established three key growth initiatives for 2010, which include: improving the utilization of its existing assets; acquiring industrial real estate with total returns above the companys cost of capital; and forming new private capital ventures and funds. Management believes that the leading indicators for economic recovery reached an inflection point during the fourth quarter and expects that improving economic conditions will lead to an increase in the demand for industrial real estate. Management expects to see earnings growth if it is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the build out and leasing of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is evaluating multiple transactions in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. The company is also observing a positive shift in investor interest and believes that this growing level of interest is being met by the scarcity of high quality, well located industrial real estate. Management believes that its existing and new private capital funds and ventures are well positioned to benefit from this shift in investor preferences. The Companys Liquidity and Balance Sheet Management believes that the companys financial position is strong and its debt maturity schedule is well laddered. During 2009, the company completed approximately $2.7 billion of debt repayments, repurchases and extensions, of which $1.6 billion occurred in the fourth quarter. Notable transactions during 2009, which further strengthened the companys liquidity position included: The issuance and sale of 47.4 million shares of its common stock for net proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, during the first quarter; The issuance of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes consisting of a $250.0 million tranche at 6.13% due 2016 and a $250.0 million tranche at 6.63% due 2019; The refinancing of its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012, which was subsequently upsized to $425.0 million in December 2009; The early repayment of its $230.0 million secured term loan facility originally due September 2010; The completion of the repurchase of $213.6 million in bonds including $168.9 million in connection with its cash tender offer of notes due 2011 and 2013 and $44.7 million of open market repurchases of notes due 2010 and 2013 with a weighted average yield to maturity of 4.74%, and the completion of a cash tender offer for $146.5 million and $28.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships 5.45% medium term notes due 2010 and 8.0% medium term notes due 2010, respectively; and 52 Table of Contents The purchase of AMB Property II, L.P.s outstanding 7.18% series D cumulative redeemable preferred units in exchange for 2.9 million shares of the parent companys common stock for an aggregate price of $67.8 million, which represented a 15% discount to the liquidation preference. As a result of its 2009 financing activity, the company reduced its share of total debt to its share of total assets to 43.6% from 51.1% and extended the weighted average remaining life of over 25% of its debt to more than five and a half years at an average interest rate of 4.9%. Having resolved its near term maturities, the company embarked on a strategy, during the fourth quarter, to further lengthen its maturity schedule to minimize its debt maturities through 2013. Management believes this strategy will provide it with maximum flexibility and further position the company to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. As of December 31, 2009, the companys total consolidated debt maturities for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) were $322.4 million, excluding principal amortization. The company had unconsolidated debt maturities of $148.2 million for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) as of December 31, 2009, excluding principal amortization. During 2009, the company disposed of $762.9 million of properties with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 6.8%. During the fourth quarter, the company completed dispositions totaling $92.9 million, with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 8.2%. During 2009, the company increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the company had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%, and had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $206.1 million. The Companys Cost Structure To address the challenges of the current business environment, the company implemented a broad based cost reduction plan that began in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of this plan, the company reduced its total global headcount by approximately one third and reduced gross GA costs by approximately $60.0 million on a run rate basis as of December 31, 2009. In executing these cost saving efforts, the company believes that it has preserved its ability to serve its global customers and manage its industrial operating and development portfolios. While the company has removed excess capacity in its capital deployment teams, it believes that it has retained its key talent and left its global capabilities intact. During the fourth quarter, the company began the process of outsourcing various global property accounting and certain back office functions. The company believes that this initiative will improve the efficiency, cost structure and scalability of its back office operations. The company incurred $2.5 million in severance costs during the fourth quarter and expects to realize $2 3 million of additional restructuring costs in 2010 related to completing this initiative. Management believes that it will produce approximately $5.0 million in annual savings upon the completion of this initiative. Real Estate Operations During 2009, industrial property fundamentals were the most challenging on record. According to data provided by CBRE Econometric Advisors as of January 25, 2010, availability in the United States reached a historical high of 13.9% for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, up 40 basis points from the prior quarter and 250 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year 2009, industrial net absorption was negative 265 million square feet, the lowest on record. The negative trend decelerated over the course of the year, slowing to a negative 38 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Within the U.S., the company believes that its coastal markets will continue to outperform other U.S. industrial markets, as evidenced by flat net absorption and availability unchanged at 12.1% in the fourth quarter. The company continues to believe that the primary infill markets tied to global trade remain relatively strong. Also according to CBRE Econometric Advisors, new construction was at an all time low of 71 million square feet for 2009 and 15.2 million square feet for the fourth quarter. While the company expects the delivery pipeline to continue to decline, the company expects net absorption to be positive in the second half of 2010. At the end of the 53 Table of Contents third quarter, the global market fundamentals began to show early signs of stability. Globally, industrial demand is still soft, but management believes that it is seeing signs of increased customer activity and decision making. Market occupancy declines are slowing globally and leasing activity has increased. Market rents remain lower than a year ago and the company expects rent changes on rollovers to continue to trend down through 2010. Current forecasts for 2010, according to the IMF, indicate that global GDP is expected to increase by 3.9% and global trade by 6%, all of which should lead to inventory rebuilding and demand for industrial real estate. The company believes that while the leading indicators for demand for industrial real estate have reached an inflection point, recovery in operating fundamentals will lag behind the recovery in the macro economy as it has in prior cycles. Management expects that its operating fundamentals in the first half of 2010 will be consistent with occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2009 before improving by the end of 2010. Rent changes on rollover are expected to be negative for 2010. For 2009, the company generated $406.9 million of net operating income, on a consolidated basis, from its real estate operations. The companys owned and managed portfolio occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 91.2%, up 20 basis points from September 30, 2009. Average occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 90.7%, up 30 basis points from the three months ended September 30, 2009. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, rent changes on rollovers in the companys industrial operating portfolio declined by 11.5% on an owned and managed basis, excluding expense reimbursements, rental abatements, percentage rents and straight line rents. Rental rates on lease renewals and rollovers in the companys portfolio declined by 6.9% for the trailing four quarters ended December 31, 2009. During the quarter, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees, decreased by 7.3% and 4.5% for the full year 2009 on an owned and managed basis. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees decreased 8.9% for the fourth quarter and 4.7% for the full year 2009. See Supplemental Earnings Measures below for a discussion of cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of cash basis same store net operating income and net income. As of December 31, 2009, the accounts receivable levels were consistent with historical levels, during recessionary periods, and management believes that the accounts receivable are leveling and that it continues to maintain adequate bad debt reserves. Although the number of bankruptcies of its customers increased during 2009, the company believes the impact of such bankruptcies on its business was not significant for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. Private Capital Business For the year ended December 31, 2009, the company generated private capital revenues of $37.9 million, of which $10.5 million occurred in the fourth quarter. During the first quarter, the company contributed one $185.0 million development project to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the third quarter, the company transferred two assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional units equal to the fair value of the assets, for an aggregate price of $32.5 million, increasing its ownership interest in the fund to 22.7% from 19.3%. Subsequent to year end, the companys two open ended funds completed approximately $267.0 million in net capital transactions consisting of: $50.0 million in new third party equity in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; $67.0 million in investor elected redemption withdrawals, thereby reducing AMB Institutional Alliance Fund IIIs redemption queue to $14.9 million as of February 1, 2010; the companys $100.0 million investment in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; and its $50.0 million investment in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS. Equityholders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. Development Business Given the uncertainty in the global economy during 2009, the company limited its development activity to previously committed projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company commenced development 54 Table of Contents on four previously committed development projects for a total estimated investment cost of $60.6 million. In addition to its committed development pipeline, as of December 31, 2009, the company held a total of 2,488 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 85% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,488 acres of land could support approximately 45.1 million square feet of future development. Impairment Charges The company recognized real estate impairment charges on certain of its assets of $181.9 million in the first quarter of 2009 and of $193.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2009. Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company completed the following significant capital deployment and other transactions: Contributed one completed development project aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for an aggregate price of approximately $184.8 million (using the exchange rate in effect on the date of contribution) to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, including 1.1 million square feet that was held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, and three land parcels totaling 35 acres for an aggregate sales price of $347.5 million; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.9 million square feet, including 0.6 million square feet that were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, for an aggregate sales price of $198.1 million; and Transferred two development assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional partnership units equal to the fair value of the assets for an aggregate price of $32.5 million and aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with new guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or 56 Table of Contents cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. 57 Table of Contents Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2007 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2009, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 63.8 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Acquired: Square feet (in thousands) 2,831 702 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ $ 217,044 $ 62,241 Development Properties Sold or Contributed: Square feet (in thousands) 3,387 5,274 8,600 For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 473.8 $ 533.5 $ (59.7 ) (11.2 )% 2008 acquisitions 19.5 11.0 8.5 77.3 % Development 50.9 21.8 29.1 133.5 % Other industrial 51.8 58.8 (7.0 ) (11.9 )% Total rental revenues 596.0 625.1 (29.1 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 37.9 68.5 (30.6 ) (44.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.9 $ 693.6 $ (59.7 ) (8.6 )% Same store rental revenues decreased $59.7 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $494.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $20.8 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in revenues from prior year acquisitions is due to revenues recognized for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in rental revenues from development of $29.1 million is 58 Table of Contents primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The decrease in these revenues of $7.0 million primarily reflects a decline in occupancy in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.6 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions of $2.9 million for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 109.9 $ 100.5 $ 9.4 9.4 % Real estate taxes 79.1 78.9 0.2 0.3 % Total property operating costs $ 189.0 $ 179.4 $ 9.6 5.4 % Property operating costs Same store $ 143.6 $ 149.6 $ (6.0 ) (4.0 )% 2008 acquisitions 7.8 3.1 4.7 151.6 % Development 21.3 7.7 13.6 176.6 % Other industrial 16.3 19.0 (2.7 ) (14.2 )% Total property operating costs 189.0 179.4 9.6 5.4 % Depreciation and amortization 179.9 164.2 15.7 9.6 % General and administrative 115.3 144.0 (28.7 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 174.4 183.7 (9.3 ) (5.1 )% Other expenses 10.2 0.5 9.7 1,940.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 676.3 $ 685.2 $ (8.9 ) (1.3 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $139.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The increase of $3.9 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to an increase in common area maintenance expenses and ground rent expense. The increase in expenses of $4.7 million related to properties acquired in 2008 is due to the recognition of expenses for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in development operating costs of $13.6 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. The decrease in other industrial operating costs of $2.7 million was primarily due to the disposition of industrial operating properties during 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $15.7 million is primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.7 million is primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and 59 Table of Contents the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. Other expenses increased $9.7 million primarily as a result of an increase in the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan expenses of $15.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs of $5.8 million from prior year. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expenses) 6.3 (3.1 ) 9.4 303.2 % Interest expense, including amortization (121.4 ) (134.0 ) (12.6 ) (9.4 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.2 ) $ (19.7 ) $ (60.5 ) (307.1 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income increased $9.4 million from the prior year primarily due to a $15.7 million increase in gains related to the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income of $4.7 million due to lower cash balances and interest rates and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $12.6 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 3.0 $ 2.0 $ 1.0 50.0 % Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 94.7 $ 4.6 $ 90.1 1,958.7 % The increase in income attributable to discontinued operations of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in real estate impairment losses on properties sold in 2009 or held for sale as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 60 Table of Contents 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 62.0 % On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 533.5 $ 555.0 $ (21.5 ) (3.9 )% 2008 acquisitions 11.0 11.0 100.0 % Development 21.8 7.3 14.5 198.6 % Other industrial 58.8 56.9 1.9 3.3 % Total rental revenues 625.1 619.2 5.9 1.0 % Private capital revenues 68.5 31.7 36.8 116.1 % Total revenues $ 693.6 $ 650.9 $ 42.7 6.6 % Same store rental revenues decreased $21.5 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $573.3 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $18.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased rental rates and decreases in free rent. The increase in rental revenues from development of $14.5 million is primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $1.9 million primarily reflects the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation and higher rent levels during 2008. The increase in private capital revenues of $36.8 million was primarily due to the receipt of an incentive distribution of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an 61 Table of Contents incentive distribution of $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and an increase in asset management fees as a result of an increase in total unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition fees. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 100.5 $ 95.9 $ 4.6 4.8 % Real estate taxes 78.9 73.2 5.7 7.8 % Total property operating costs $ 179.4 $ 169.1 $ 10.3 6.1 % Property operating costs Same store $ 149.6 $ 155.3 $ (5.7 ) (3.7 )% 2008 acquisitions 3.1 3.1 100.0 % Development 7.7 2.9 4.8 165.5 % Other industrial 19.0 10.9 8.1 74.3 % Total property operating costs 179.4 169.1 10.3 6.1 % Depreciation and amortization 164.2 157.3 6.9 4.4 % General and administrative 144.0 129.5 14.5 11.2 % Restructuring charges 12.3 12.3 100.0 % Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 183.7 0.9 182.8 20,311.1 % Other expenses 0.5 5.1 (4.6 ) (90.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 685.2 $ 463.0 $ 222.2 48.0 % Same store properties operating expenses decreased $5.7 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $159.9 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $4.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, ground rent expenses and non reimbursable expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $4.8 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $8.1 million was primarily due to an increase in the number of properties that have reached these levels of operations. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $6.9 million was primarily due to the recognition of $4.3 million of depreciation expense resulting from the reclassification of $76.7 million from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2008 and asset stabilizations, as well as the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $14.5 million was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs, resulting from increased employee headcount in the first three quarters of 2008 as well as an increase in professional services, and taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recorded $12.3 million in restructuring charges due to the implementation of a broad based cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The increase in real estate impairment losses was primarily a result of changes in the economic environment in addition to the write off of pursuit costs. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to 62 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in other expenses of $4.6 million was primarily due to a loss on our non qualified deferred compensation plans during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a gain during the year ended December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 81.1 $ 124.3 $ (43.2 ) (34.8 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 73.4 (53.4 ) (72.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.1 7.5 9.6 128.0 % Other income (expenses) (3.1 ) 22.3 (25.4 ) (113.9 )% Interest expense, including amortization (134.0 ) (126.8 ) 7.2 5.7 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (0.8 ) (0.4 ) 0.4 100.0 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (19.7 ) $ 100.3 $ (120.0 ) (119.6 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed 4.2 million square feet in industrial operating properties into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, contributed one 0.2 million square foot industrial operating property into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and contributed one industrial operating property aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet into AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, for a total of approximately $524.9 million. As a result of these contributions, the company recognized gains from the contribution of real estate interests of approximately $73.4 million, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the contribution of the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, as well as growth in the companys unconsolidated assets under management. Other income (expenses) decreased $25.4 million from the prior year primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate loss, a loss on the companys nonqualified deferred compensation plan of $7.8 million, the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on impairment of an investment and a decrease in interest income of approximately $3.3 million, partially offset by an increase in third party management fees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company recognized a gain on currency remeasurement of approximately $3.9 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in 2008. Additionally, other income during the year ended December 31, 2007 included insurance proceeds of approximately $2.9 million related to losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Interest expense increased $7.2 million as a result of increased total consolidated debt at December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 2.0 $ 19.2 $ (17.2 ) (89.6 )% Development profits, net of taxes 52.1 (52.1 ) 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 2.6 12.1 (9.5 ) (78.5 )% Total discontinued operations $ 4.6 $ 83.4 $ (78.8 ) (94.5 )% 63 Table of Contents The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $17.2 million for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to $10.2 million of real estate impairment losses on assets sold in 2008 and held for sale as of December 31, 2008, as well as a decrease in sales and contributions of industrial operating properties in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of $12.1 million, and value added conversion projects for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $52.1 million. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption premium (2.9 ) 2.9 (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (18.7 ) $ 2.9 (15.5 )% On April 17, 2007, the operating partnership redeemed all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series J cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units and all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series K cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. In addition, AMB Property II, L.P., one of the operating partnerships subsidiaries, repurchased all 510,000 of its outstanding 8.00% series I cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. As a result of the redemptions and repurchase, the company recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $2.9 million for the original issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned an approximate 97.8% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 2.2% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its 64 Table of Contents investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created co investment ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2009: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. In December 2007, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock, which terminated on December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the parent company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $87.7 million at a weighted average price of $49.64 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $53.4 million at a weighted average price of $49.87 per share. In March 2009, the parent company completed the issuance of 47.4 million shares of its common stock at a price of $12.15 per share for proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. The proceeds from the offering were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. 65 Table of Contents Market Equity as of December 31, 2009 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 149,258,376 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,813,552 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,634,517 $ 3,899,812 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market 66 Table of Contents price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 49.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.6% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total book capitalization is defined as the parent companys share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership unitholders plus stockholders equity. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of AMB Property, L.P. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt Guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships 67 Table of Contents liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 68 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (21,178 ) (66,007 ) (137,722 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In May 2008, the operating partnership sold $325.0 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes under its Series C medium term note program. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitation on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to $425.0 million of its other debt, related to the following loan facility. In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. The facility includes Euro and Yen tranches, with both the multi currency and the U.S. dollar components currently priced at 275 basis points over the applicable LIBOR index. This facility contains limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility, 69 Table of Contents which, as of December 31, 2009, had a balance of $55.5 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.68%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $182.9 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.7%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to further increase the facility to $750.0 million, to extend the maturity date to July 2011 and to allow for future borrowing in Indian rupees. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $239.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and 70 Table of Contents net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash provided by operating activities was $242.3 million as compared to $301.0 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to lower net operating income in 2009 as well as changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash provided by investing activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $881.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to an increase in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and decreases in the following: cash paid for property acquisitions, additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs, loans made to affiliated entities and the purchase of equity interests. This is partially offset by the decrease in repayment of mortgage and loan receivables. Cash used in financing activities was $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $581.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net borrowings on secured debt, other debt and unsecured credit facilities and an increase in payments on senior debt. This activity was partially offset by an increase in net proceeds from issuances of senior debt, an increase in the issuance of common and preferred units, a decrease in the repurchase of common units, and a decrease in distributions paid to common and preferred unitholders and noncontrolling interests. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding 149,028,965 common general partnership units; 2,119,928 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. 71 Table of Contents The net proceeds from the parent companys March 2009 offering of 47.4 million shares of common stock were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. The operating partnership used the proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities. The proceeds were approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions on a consolidated basis during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 1 Square feet 3,685,677 396,710 Estimated investment(1) $ 264,697 $ 17,396 Sold: Number of projects 3 2 Square feet 774,663 158,871 Estimated investment(1) $ 62,695 $ 37,686 Contributed: Number of projects 4 Square feet 2,122,056 Estimated investment $ $ 139,316 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 24 19 Square feet 6,669,855 5,834,143 Estimated investment(1) $ 567,634 $ 751,028 Total: Number of projects 38 26 Square feet 11,130,195 8,511,780 Estimated investment(1) $ 895,026 $ 945,426 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Square feet 1,977,185 73,927 498,017 Gross sales price $ 293,846 $ 26,116 $ 222,963 Net proceeds $ 254,888 $ 23,557 $ 208,795 Development profits, net of taxes $ 59,068 $ 7,235 $ 80,706 72 Table of Contents Development contribution activity during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Number of projects contributed to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 2 4 4 Square feet 428,180 2,723,003 1,006,164 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 2 Square feet 1,421,043 329,114 Number of land parcels contributed to AMB DFS Fund I, LLC 2 Square feet Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 2 8 Square feet 164,574 1,838,011 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 1 Square feet 981,162 891,596 469,627 Total number of contributed development assets 3 11 17 Total square feet 1,409,342 5,200,216 3,642,916 Gross contribution price $ 217,293 $ 374,878 $ 397,389 Net proceeds $ 56,822 $ 254,791 $ 378,531 Development profits, net of taxes $ 29,808 $ 73,849 $ 95,713 Development Sales and Contributions. During 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $59.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects and land parcels, aggregating approximately 2.0 million square feet. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $28.6 million as a result of the sale of development projects and 76 acres of land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $95.7 million, as a result of the contribution of 15 completed development projects and two land parcels, aggregating approximately 82 acres of land, to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. Also during 2008, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During 2007, the operating partnership contributed operating properties for approximately $524.9 million, aggregating approximately 4.5 million square feet, into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. The operating partnership also recognized a gain of $73.4 million in 2007 on the contributions, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third 73 Table of Contents party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for sale two properties with an aggregate net book value of $8.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 96% to an expected range of 15 20%. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 20 properties with an aggregate net book value of $600.8 million. As of December 31, 2009, no properties were reclassified from held for sale and properties with an aggregate net book value of $143.9 million were reclassified from held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, properties with an aggregate net book value of $100.4 million were reclassified from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $2.2 million as a result of the reclassification, as well as impairment charges of $21.8 million on real estate assets held for divestiture or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. During 2007, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $12.1 million. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the statements of operations. Value added Conversion Sales. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, including approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres, for an aggregate price of $143.9 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $53.0 million. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During 2007, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, with a resulting gain of 74 Table of Contents approximately $52.1 million. These gains are presented in development profits, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership owned approximately 77.4 million square feet of its properties (49.9% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 20 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. In March 2008, the partners of AMB/Erie, L.P., sold their interests in the partnership to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., including its final real estate asset, for a gain of $20.0 million. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Ownership Planned Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT III, Inc. 23 % $ 3,270,000 (2) AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS Institutional investors 21 % $ 1,260,000 (2) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 1,498,000 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 602,000 AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 85,000 (3) (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. (2) The planned capitalization and investment capacity of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, as open ended funds is not limited. The planned capitalization represents the gross book value of real estate assets as of the most recent quarter end. (3) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the planned capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2009 was the gross book value as of December 31, 2009 plus the estimated investment of $5.1 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the operating partnership also had a 100% consolidated interest in G. Accion, a Mexican real estate company, which has been renamed AMB Property Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (AMB 75 Table of Contents Property Mexico). AMB Property Mexico owns and develops real estate and provides real estate management and development services in Mexico. On June 13, 2008, the operating partnership acquired approximately 19% of additional equity interest and on July 18, 2008, it acquired the remaining equity interest (approximately 42%) in AMB Property Mexico, increasing its equity interest from approximately 39% to 100%. Through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, the operating partnership held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $18.7 million and $24.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market equity, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.1 billion, excluding insignificant unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.1 billion of secured debt, $771.3 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2009, bore interest at rates varying from 0.7% to 9.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.5%) and had final maturity dates ranging from February 2010 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2009, $622.4 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4%), while the remaining $474.1 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.0%). As of December 31, 2009, $610.5 million of the secured debt was held by co investment ventures. On September 4, 2008, the operating partnership entered into a $230.0 million secured term loan credit agreement set to mature on September 4, 2010. In December 2009, the operating partnership paid off the entire balance under this facility. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $482.9 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and had an average term of 2.8 years. Other debt also includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $50.0 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Of the remaining $432.9 million outstanding in other debt, $425.0 million is related to the loan facility described below. 76 Table of Contents In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the facility had an outstanding balance of $417.7 million, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2009. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. If the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. However, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay 77 Table of Contents its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, continued turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on June 1, 2010. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The line carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and the facility can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 15.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital 78 Table of Contents requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility was $55.5 million and the remaining amount available was $481.7 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $12.8 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.70%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The extension option is also subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 15.0 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009, was $182.9 million, and the remaining amount available was $408.4 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, and Euros with the ability to add Indian rupees. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and can be increased to up to $750.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009, was approximately $239.2 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%, and the remaining amount available was $260.8 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2009. 79 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Consolidated Joint Venture Unsecured Total Unconsolidated Senior Credit Other Secured Secured Other Consolidated Joint Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt 2010 $ 65,000 $ 238,429 $ 2,112 $ 189,562 $ 131,497 $ $ 626,600 $ 197,198 $ 823,798 2011 69,000 239,201 2,186 88,284 120,355 519,026 620,324 1,139,350 2012 426,385 27,764 388,113 50,000 892,262 449,870 1,342,132 2013 293,897 920 19,611 49,938 364,366 712,750 1,077,116 2014 616 5,659 6,275 855,551 861,826 2015 112,491 664 17,610 130,765 264,519 395,284 2016 250,000 16,231 266,231 73,102 339,333 2017 1,272 1,272 351,639 352,911 2018 125,000 1,455 126,455 183,194 309,649 2019 250,000 250,000 250,000 Thereafter 39,154 39,154 5,844 44,998 Subtotal $ 1,165,388 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,221 $ 771,284 $ 50,000 $ 3,222,406 $ 3,713,991 $ 6,936,397 Unamortized net (discount) premium (9,859 ) 273 (224 ) (9,810 ) (4,513 ) (14,323 ) Subtotal $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 771,060 $ 50,000 $ 3,212,596 $ 3,709,478 $ 6,922,074 Joint venture partners share of debt (433,601 ) (40,000 ) (473,601 ) (2,868,120 ) (3,341,721 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 337,459 $ 10,000 $ 2,738,995 $ 841,358 $ 3,580,353 Weighted average interest rate 6.4 % 0.8 % 3.9 % 3.5 % 4.9 % 5.8 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.7 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.0 2.8 1.0 2.7 2.7 3.5 4.1 3.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.6 billion. Includes $175.5 million of U.S. dollar borrowings, as well as $182.9 million, $93.0 million and $26.2 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 80 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2010 through 2013, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 65,000 $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 Credit Facilities 238,429 239,201 Other Debt 427,635 1,916 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 188,445 (3) 87,667 28,648 20,466 Subtotal 253,445 395,096 695,484 316,279 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 2,559 (4) 39,786 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 10,029 (5) 31,022 5,555 93,712 AMB SGP, L.P. 42,064 293,700 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 56,408 42,353 8,506 Subtotal 68,996 115,439 307,761 133,498 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 27,157 (6) 184,580 77,660 287,002 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 112,004 204,502 179,852 344,432 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 58,825 167,180 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 9,059 31,995 58,771 AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 6,381 5,018 Subtotal 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total Consolidated 322,441 510,535 1,003,245 449,777 Total Unconsolidated 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total $ 470,661 $ 990,437 $ 1,434,318 $ 1,145,000 Total Operating Partnerships Share(7) $ 323,530 $ 558,967 $ 940,365 $ 513,611 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2013, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Subsequent to year end, 10.2 billion yen ($109.7 million using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) was repaid. (4) Subsequent to year end, $2.6 million was repaid at maturity. (5) Subsequent to year end, $4.7 million was refinanced and extended to maturity in 2014. (6) Subsequent to year end, $27.2 million was repaid. (7) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2010 through 2013 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. 81 Table of Contents Market Capital as of December 31, 2009 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 149,028,965 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,807,690 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,405,106 $ 3,893,950 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 46.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 49.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.6% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 46.4% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total book capitalization is defined as the operating partnerships share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership 82 Table of Contents unitholders plus stockholders equity. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $187.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $18.9 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2009, approximately $159.4 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units $ 2.69 $ 3.59 $ 3.64 The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash 83 Table of Contents distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Distributions paid to partners (139,515 ) (224,549 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (18,771 ) (61,934 ) (137,722 ) Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 54 years. The buildings and improvements subject to these ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2010 $ 37,603 2011 35,943 2012 33,085 2013 31,393 2014 28,769 Thereafter 435,722 Total $ 602,515 84 Table of Contents Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in five unconsolidated co investment ventures of $392.6 million and a gross book value of $6.6 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $24.6 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This would increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. 85 Table of Contents Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 The Americas: Acres 4 197 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,537,632 Investment(1) $ 1,539 $ 88,436 Europe: Acres 2 72 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 67,805 1,613,087 Investment(1) $ 5,656 $ 66,850 Asia: Acres 38 111 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 4,371,377 Investment(1) $ 17,032 $ 61,776 Total: Acres 44 380 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,143,624 9,522,096 Investment(1) $ 24,227 $ 217,062 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Acquisition activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Number of properties acquired by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 8 Square feet 1,622,649 Expected investment $ $ 171,694 Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 3 Square feet 848,313 Expected investment $ $ 154,499 Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 10 Square feet 2,830,936 Expected investment $ $ 217,044 Total number of properties acquired 21 Total square feet 5,301,898 Total acquisition cost $ $ 529,574 Total acquisition capital 13,663 Total expected investment(1) $ $ 543,237 (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar 86 Table of Contents investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 626,600 $ 1,411,288 $ 370,641 $ 813,877 $ 3,222,406 Debt interest payments 19,894 54,756 22,136 50,543 147,329 Operating lease commitments 37,603 69,028 60,162 435,722 602,515 Total $ 684,097 $ 1,535,072 $ 452,939 $ 1,300,142 $ 3,972,250 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2009, the company had provided approximately $15.2 million in letters of credit, of which $12.8 million were provided under the operating partnerships $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 7 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $415.6 million as described below. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.4 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2009, the company also guaranteed $47.9 million and $106.7 million on outstanding loans on six of its consolidated joint ventures and four of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2009. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $5.1 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. 87 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations (FFO) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit (FFOPS) The company believes that net (loss) income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, or FFO, and FFO per share and unit, or FFOPS, to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS as FFO per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO as net (loss) income available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in FFO. However, the companys interpretation of FFO or FFOPS may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to FFO or FFOPS reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO. The company believes that FFO and FFOPS are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, FFO and FFOPS are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net (loss) income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of FFO and FFOPS, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers FFO and FFOPS to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO and FFOPS can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO and FFOPS are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, FFO and FFOPS do not represent cash flow from operations or net (loss) income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. FFO and FFOPS also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are FFO and FFOPS necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of FFO and FFOPS by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of FFO and FFOPS and a reconciliation of FFO and FFOPS to net (loss) income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 88 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) $ 305,241 Net loss (income) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership 789 782 (11,689 ) Net (loss) income available to common stockholders of the parent company (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (38,718 ) (22,561 ) (85,559 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Discontinued operations depreciation 2,042 5,011 6,436 Non real estate depreciation (8,593 ) (7,270 ) (5,623 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net income) 11,063 32,855 27,235 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net (loss) income) (3,625 ) (5,063 ) 6,019 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development gains) 2,377 2,822 7,148 FFO attributable to noncontrolling interests (26,695 ) (49,957 ) (62,902 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net loss (11,331 ) (17,121 ) (7,467 ) The companys share of FFO 42,938 42,742 27,391 Allocation to participating securities(1) (418 ) Funds from operations $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 Basic FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.78 $ 3.58 Diluted FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.77 $ 3.49 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 137,740,825 101,253,972 101,550,001 Diluted 137,903,929 102,734,827 103,961,648 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO distributed through declared dividends and allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 918,753, 855,919 and 652,838 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines net operating income, or NOI, as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment 89 Table of Contents losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers same store net operating income, or SS NOI, and cash basis SS NOI to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis. The company defines cash basis SS NOI as SS NOI excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2007. The company considers cash basis SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI help investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI and cash basis SSNOI are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, they do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI also do not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI. The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net (loss) income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) $ 371,716 Private capital revenues (37,879 ) (68,470 ) (31,707 ) Depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Real estate impairment losses 174,410 183,754 900 General and administrative and fund costs 116,315 145,040 130,584 Restructuring charges 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 90,484 20,213 (95,235 ) Total discontinued operations (94,725 ) (4,558 ) (83,450 ) Net operating income 406,907 445,723 450,098 Less non same store NOI (77,719 ) (96,766 ) (28,414 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (398 ) (891 ) (6,214 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 328,790 $ 348,066 $ 415,470 Less lease termination fees (2,613 ) (5,498 ) (327 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 326,177 $ 342,568 $ 415,143 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. 90 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, the company had one outstanding interest rate swap, four outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts and two interest rate caps with an aggregate notional amount of $836.4 million (in U.S. dollars). See Financial Instruments below. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $9.8 million as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 194,579 $ 135,794 $ 507,872 $ 344,755 $ 6,275 $ 783,792 $ 1,973,067 $ 1,964,410 Average interest rate 7.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 6.4 % 6.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 432,021 $ 383,232 $ 384,390 $ 19,611 $ $ 30,085 $ 1,249,339 $ 1,223,420 Average interest rate 1.2 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 1.9 % % 1.7 % 1.8 % n/a Interest payments $ 19,894 $ 14,329 $ 40,427 $ 21,711 $ 425 $ 50,543 $ 147,329 n/a (1) Represents 61.2% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. (2) Represents 38.8% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $2.3 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, variable rate debt comprised 38.8% and 38.0%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2009 were one interest rate swap and two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 91 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands): March 31, September 4, November 1, October 1, Notional Related Derivatives 2010 2010 2010 2012 Amount Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 Receive Floating(%) 3 mo. US LIBOR Pay Fixed Rate(%) 2.70 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ (1,992 ) $ (1,992 ) Interest Rate Caps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 7,319 $ 7,319 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 3.15 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ Trade Notional Amount $ 26,500 $ 26,500 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 4.25 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ 141 $ 141 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts FX Forward Contract, Euro Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 339,732 $ 339,732 Forward Strike Rate 1.4380 3/31/2010 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.4328 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 1,228 $ 1,228 FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 189,879 $ 189,879 Forward Strike Rate 1.0467 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ (20 ) $ (20 ) FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 74,053 $ 74,053 Forward Strike Rate 1.0463 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 16 $ 16 FX Forward Contract, GBP Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 68,949 $ 68,949 Forward Strike Rate 1.6208 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.6169 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 168 $ 168 $ 836,432 $ (459 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The (losses) gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $(22.0) million and $23.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange 92 Table of Contents rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $(7.2) million, $(5.7) million and $3.9 million, respectively. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements Overview Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company began to be impacted by the economic, financial and real estate market crisis. To maintain its competitive advantage, the company established three key near term priorities for 2009 which included: strengthening its balance sheet and liquidity position; reducing its cost structure; and positioning for future growth opportunities. Management believes that in 2009 it successfully executed on these near term priorities, which enabled the company to navigate through a challenging environment, and that the company is now positioned to pursue growth opportunities. As such, the company has established three key growth initiatives for 2010, which include: improving the utilization of its existing assets; acquiring industrial real estate with total returns above the companys cost of capital; and forming new private capital ventures and funds. Management believes that the leading indicators for economic recovery reached an inflection point during the fourth quarter and expects that improving economic conditions will lead to an increase in the demand for industrial real estate. Management expects to see earnings growth if it is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the build out and leasing of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is evaluating multiple transactions in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. The company is also observing a positive shift in investor interest and believes that this growing level of interest is being met by the scarcity of high quality, well located industrial real estate. Management believes that its existing and new private capital funds and ventures are well positioned to benefit from this shift in investor preferences. The Companys Liquidity and Balance Sheet Management believes that the companys financial position is strong and its debt maturity schedule is well laddered. During 2009, the company completed approximately $2.7 billion of debt repayments, repurchases and extensions, of which $1.6 billion occurred in the fourth quarter. Notable transactions during 2009, which further strengthened the companys liquidity position included: The issuance and sale of 47.4 million shares of its common stock for net proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, during the first quarter; The issuance of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes consisting of a $250.0 million tranche at 6.13% due 2016 and a $250.0 million tranche at 6.63% due 2019; The refinancing of its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012, which was subsequently upsized to $425.0 million in December 2009; The early repayment of its $230.0 million secured term loan facility originally due September 2010; The completion of the repurchase of $213.6 million in bonds including $168.9 million in connection with its cash tender offer of notes due 2011 and 2013 and $44.7 million of open market repurchases of notes due 2010 and 2013 with a weighted average yield to maturity of 4.74%, and the completion of a cash tender offer for $146.5 million and $28.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships 5.45% medium term notes due 2010 and 8.0% medium term notes due 2010, respectively; and 52 Table of Contents The purchase of AMB Property II, L.P.s outstanding 7.18% series D cumulative redeemable preferred units in exchange for 2.9 million shares of the parent companys common stock for an aggregate price of $67.8 million, which represented a 15% discount to the liquidation preference. As a result of its 2009 financing activity, the company reduced its share of total debt to its share of total assets to 43.6% from 51.1% and extended the weighted average remaining life of over 25% of its debt to more than five and a half years at an average interest rate of 4.9%. Having resolved its near term maturities, the company embarked on a strategy, during the fourth quarter, to further lengthen its maturity schedule to minimize its debt maturities through 2013. Management believes this strategy will provide it with maximum flexibility and further position the company to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. As of December 31, 2009, the companys total consolidated debt maturities for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) were $322.4 million, excluding principal amortization. The company had unconsolidated debt maturities of $148.2 million for 2010 after extension options (subject to certain conditions) as of December 31, 2009, excluding principal amortization. During 2009, the company disposed of $762.9 million of properties with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 6.8%. During the fourth quarter, the company completed dispositions totaling $92.9 million, with a weighted average stabilized capitalization rate of 8.2%. During 2009, the company increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the company had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%, and had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $206.1 million. The Companys Cost Structure To address the challenges of the current business environment, the company implemented a broad based cost reduction plan that began in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of this plan, the company reduced its total global headcount by approximately one third and reduced gross GA costs by approximately $60.0 million on a run rate basis as of December 31, 2009. In executing these cost saving efforts, the company believes that it has preserved its ability to serve its global customers and manage its industrial operating and development portfolios. While the company has removed excess capacity in its capital deployment teams, it believes that it has retained its key talent and left its global capabilities intact. During the fourth quarter, the company began the process of outsourcing various global property accounting and certain back office functions. The company believes that this initiative will improve the efficiency, cost structure and scalability of its back office operations. The company incurred $2.5 million in severance costs during the fourth quarter and expects to realize $2 3 million of additional restructuring costs in 2010 related to completing this initiative. Management believes that it will produce approximately $5.0 million in annual savings upon the completion of this initiative. Real Estate Operations During 2009, industrial property fundamentals were the most challenging on record. According to data provided by CBRE Econometric Advisors as of January 25, 2010, availability in the United States reached a historical high of 13.9% for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, up 40 basis points from the prior quarter and 250 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year 2009, industrial net absorption was negative 265 million square feet, the lowest on record. The negative trend decelerated over the course of the year, slowing to a negative 38 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Within the U.S., the company believes that its coastal markets will continue to outperform other U.S. industrial markets, as evidenced by flat net absorption and availability unchanged at 12.1% in the fourth quarter. The company continues to believe that the primary infill markets tied to global trade remain relatively strong. Also according to CBRE Econometric Advisors, new construction was at an all time low of 71 million square feet for 2009 and 15.2 million square feet for the fourth quarter. While the company expects the delivery pipeline to continue to decline, the company expects net absorption to be positive in the second half of 2010. At the end of the 53 Table of Contents third quarter, the global market fundamentals began to show early signs of stability. Globally, industrial demand is still soft, but management believes that it is seeing signs of increased customer activity and decision making. Market occupancy declines are slowing globally and leasing activity has increased. Market rents remain lower than a year ago and the company expects rent changes on rollovers to continue to trend down through 2010. Current forecasts for 2010, according to the IMF, indicate that global GDP is expected to increase by 3.9% and global trade by 6%, all of which should lead to inventory rebuilding and demand for industrial real estate. The company believes that while the leading indicators for demand for industrial real estate have reached an inflection point, recovery in operating fundamentals will lag behind the recovery in the macro economy as it has in prior cycles. Management expects that its operating fundamentals in the first half of 2010 will be consistent with occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2009 before improving by the end of 2010. Rent changes on rollover are expected to be negative for 2010. For 2009, the company generated $406.9 million of net operating income, on a consolidated basis, from its real estate operations. The companys owned and managed portfolio occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 91.2%, up 20 basis points from September 30, 2009. Average occupancy during the three months ended December 31, 2009 was 90.7%, up 30 basis points from the three months ended September 30, 2009. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, rent changes on rollovers in the companys industrial operating portfolio declined by 11.5% on an owned and managed basis, excluding expense reimbursements, rental abatements, percentage rents and straight line rents. Rental rates on lease renewals and rollovers in the companys portfolio declined by 6.9% for the trailing four quarters ended December 31, 2009. During the quarter, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees, decreased by 7.3% and 4.5% for the full year 2009 on an owned and managed basis. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar, cash basis same store net operating income without the effect of lease termination fees decreased 8.9% for the fourth quarter and 4.7% for the full year 2009. See Supplemental Earnings Measures below for a discussion of cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of cash basis same store net operating income and net income. As of December 31, 2009, the accounts receivable levels were consistent with historical levels, during recessionary periods, and management believes that the accounts receivable are leveling and that it continues to maintain adequate bad debt reserves. Although the number of bankruptcies of its customers increased during 2009, the company believes the impact of such bankruptcies on its business was not significant for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. Private Capital Business For the year ended December 31, 2009, the company generated private capital revenues of $37.9 million, of which $10.5 million occurred in the fourth quarter. During the first quarter, the company contributed one $185.0 million development project to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the third quarter, the company transferred two assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional units equal to the fair value of the assets, for an aggregate price of $32.5 million, increasing its ownership interest in the fund to 22.7% from 19.3%. Subsequent to year end, the companys two open ended funds completed approximately $267.0 million in net capital transactions consisting of: $50.0 million in new third party equity in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; $67.0 million in investor elected redemption withdrawals, thereby reducing AMB Institutional Alliance Fund IIIs redemption queue to $14.9 million as of February 1, 2010; the companys $100.0 million investment in AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III; and its $50.0 million investment in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS. Equityholders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. Development Business Given the uncertainty in the global economy during 2009, the company limited its development activity to previously committed projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company commenced development 54 Table of Contents on four previously committed development projects for a total estimated investment cost of $60.6 million. In addition to its committed development pipeline, as of December 31, 2009, the company held a total of 2,488 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 85% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,488 acres of land could support approximately 45.1 million square feet of future development. Impairment Charges The company recognized real estate impairment charges on certain of its assets of $181.9 million in the first quarter of 2009 and of $193.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2009. Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company completed the following significant capital deployment and other transactions: Contributed one completed development project aggregating approximately 1.0 million square feet for an aggregate price of approximately $184.8 million (using the exchange rate in effect on the date of contribution) to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, including 1.1 million square feet that was held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, and three land parcels totaling 35 acres for an aggregate sales price of $347.5 million; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.9 million square feet, including 0.6 million square feet that were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture, for an aggregate sales price of $198.1 million; and Transferred two development assets to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in exchange for additional partnership units equal to the fair value of the assets for an aggregate price of $32.5 million and aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with new guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or 56 Table of Contents cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. 57 Table of Contents Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2007 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2009, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 63.8 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Acquired: Square feet (in thousands) 2,831 702 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ $ 217,044 $ 62,241 Development Properties Sold or Contributed: Square feet (in thousands) 3,387 5,274 8,600 For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 473.8 $ 533.5 $ (59.7 ) (11.2 )% 2008 acquisitions 19.5 11.0 8.5 77.3 % Development 50.9 21.8 29.1 133.5 % Other industrial 51.8 58.8 (7.0 ) (11.9 )% Total rental revenues 596.0 625.1 (29.1 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 37.9 68.5 (30.6 ) (44.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.9 $ 693.6 $ (59.7 ) (8.6 )% Same store rental revenues decreased $59.7 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $494.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $20.8 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in revenues from prior year acquisitions is due to revenues recognized for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in rental revenues from development of $29.1 million is 58 Table of Contents primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The decrease in these revenues of $7.0 million primarily reflects a decline in occupancy in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.6 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions of $2.9 million for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 109.9 $ 100.5 $ 9.4 9.4 % Real estate taxes 79.1 78.9 0.2 0.3 % Total property operating costs $ 189.0 $ 179.4 $ 9.6 5.4 % Property operating costs Same store $ 143.6 $ 149.6 $ (6.0 ) (4.0 )% 2008 acquisitions 7.8 3.1 4.7 151.6 % Development 21.3 7.7 13.6 176.6 % Other industrial 16.3 19.0 (2.7 ) (14.2 )% Total property operating costs 189.0 179.4 9.6 5.4 % Depreciation and amortization 179.9 164.2 15.7 9.6 % General and administrative 115.3 144.0 (28.7 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 174.4 183.7 (9.3 ) (5.1 )% Other expenses 10.2 0.5 9.7 1,940.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 676.3 $ 685.2 $ (8.9 ) (1.3 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $139.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The increase of $3.9 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to an increase in common area maintenance expenses and ground rent expense. The increase in expenses of $4.7 million related to properties acquired in 2008 is due to the recognition of expenses for the full year ended December 31, 2009 for properties acquired throughout all of 2008. The increase in development operating costs of $13.6 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. The decrease in other industrial operating costs of $2.7 million was primarily due to the disposition of industrial operating properties during 2009. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $15.7 million is primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.7 million is primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and 59 Table of Contents the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. Other expenses increased $9.7 million primarily as a result of an increase in the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan expenses of $15.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs of $5.8 million from prior year. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expenses) 6.3 (3.1 ) 9.4 303.2 % Interest expense, including amortization (121.4 ) (134.0 ) (12.6 ) (9.4 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.2 ) $ (19.7 ) $ (60.5 ) (307.1 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income increased $9.4 million from the prior year primarily due to a $15.7 million increase in gains related to the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income of $4.7 million due to lower cash balances and interest rates and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $12.6 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 3.0 $ 2.0 $ 1.0 50.0 % Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 94.7 $ 4.6 $ 90.1 1,958.7 % The increase in income attributable to discontinued operations of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in real estate impairment losses on properties sold in 2009 or held for sale as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 60 Table of Contents 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 62.0 % On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 533.5 $ 555.0 $ (21.5 ) (3.9 )% 2008 acquisitions 11.0 11.0 100.0 % Development 21.8 7.3 14.5 198.6 % Other industrial 58.8 56.9 1.9 3.3 % Total rental revenues 625.1 619.2 5.9 1.0 % Private capital revenues 68.5 31.7 36.8 116.1 % Total revenues $ 693.6 $ 650.9 $ 42.7 6.6 % Same store rental revenues decreased $21.5 million from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $573.3 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $18.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased rental rates and decreases in free rent. The increase in rental revenues from development of $14.5 million is primarily due to increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $1.9 million primarily reflects the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation and higher rent levels during 2008. The increase in private capital revenues of $36.8 million was primarily due to the receipt of an incentive distribution of $33.0 million for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an 61 Table of Contents incentive distribution of $1.0 million in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and an increase in asset management fees as a result of an increase in total unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition fees. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 100.5 $ 95.9 $ 4.6 4.8 % Real estate taxes 78.9 73.2 5.7 7.8 % Total property operating costs $ 179.4 $ 169.1 $ 10.3 6.1 % Property operating costs Same store $ 149.6 $ 155.3 $ (5.7 ) (3.7 )% 2008 acquisitions 3.1 3.1 100.0 % Development 7.7 2.9 4.8 165.5 % Other industrial 19.0 10.9 8.1 74.3 % Total property operating costs 179.4 169.1 10.3 6.1 % Depreciation and amortization 164.2 157.3 6.9 4.4 % General and administrative 144.0 129.5 14.5 11.2 % Restructuring charges 12.3 12.3 100.0 % Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 183.7 0.9 182.8 20,311.1 % Other expenses 0.5 5.1 (4.6 ) (90.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 685.2 $ 463.0 $ 222.2 48.0 % Same store properties operating expenses decreased $5.7 million from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $159.9 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had not been contributed as of December 31, 2008. The increase of $4.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, ground rent expenses and non reimbursable expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $4.8 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $8.1 million was primarily due to an increase in the number of properties that have reached these levels of operations. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $6.9 million was primarily due to the recognition of $4.3 million of depreciation expense resulting from the reclassification of $76.7 million from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2008 and asset stabilizations, as well as the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $14.5 million was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs, resulting from increased employee headcount in the first three quarters of 2008 as well as an increase in professional services, and taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recorded $12.3 million in restructuring charges due to the implementation of a broad based cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The increase in real estate impairment losses was primarily a result of changes in the economic environment in addition to the write off of pursuit costs. See Item 15: Note 3 of the Notes to 62 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in other expenses of $4.6 million was primarily due to a loss on our non qualified deferred compensation plans during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a gain during the year ended December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 81.1 $ 124.3 $ (43.2 ) (34.8 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 73.4 (53.4 ) (72.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.1 7.5 9.6 128.0 % Other income (expenses) (3.1 ) 22.3 (25.4 ) (113.9 )% Interest expense, including amortization (134.0 ) (126.8 ) 7.2 5.7 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (0.8 ) (0.4 ) 0.4 100.0 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (19.7 ) $ 100.3 $ (120.0 ) (119.6 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects including land. See the development sales and development contributions tables and Development Sales and Contributions in Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership for a discussion of the development asset sales and contributions and the associated development profits during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company contributed 4.2 million square feet in industrial operating properties into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, contributed one 0.2 million square foot industrial operating property into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and contributed one industrial operating property aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet into AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, for a total of approximately $524.9 million. As a result of these contributions, the company recognized gains from the contribution of real estate interests of approximately $73.4 million, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third party investors for cash. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the contribution of the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, as well as growth in the companys unconsolidated assets under management. Other income (expenses) decreased $25.4 million from the prior year primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate loss, a loss on the companys nonqualified deferred compensation plan of $7.8 million, the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on impairment of an investment and a decrease in interest income of approximately $3.3 million, partially offset by an increase in third party management fees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company recognized a gain on currency remeasurement of approximately $3.9 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in 2008. Additionally, other income during the year ended December 31, 2007 included insurance proceeds of approximately $2.9 million related to losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Interest expense increased $7.2 million as a result of increased total consolidated debt at December 31, 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 2.0 $ 19.2 $ (17.2 ) (89.6 )% Development profits, net of taxes 52.1 (52.1 ) 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 2.6 12.1 (9.5 ) (78.5 )% Total discontinued operations $ 4.6 $ 83.4 $ (78.8 ) (94.5 )% 63 Table of Contents The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $17.2 million for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to $10.2 million of real estate impairment losses on assets sold in 2008 and held for sale as of December 31, 2008, as well as a decrease in sales and contributions of industrial operating properties in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of $12.1 million, and value added conversion projects for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $52.1 million. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2008 2007 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption premium (2.9 ) 2.9 (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (18.7 ) $ 2.9 (15.5 )% On April 17, 2007, the operating partnership redeemed all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series J cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units and all 800,000 of its outstanding 7.95% series K cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. In addition, AMB Property II, L.P., one of the operating partnerships subsidiaries, repurchased all 510,000 of its outstanding 8.00% series I cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership units. As a result of the redemptions and repurchase, the company recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $2.9 million for the original issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned an approximate 97.8% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 2.2% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its 64 Table of Contents investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created co investment ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2009: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. In December 2007, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock, which terminated on December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the parent company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $87.7 million at a weighted average price of $49.64 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the parent company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate price of $53.4 million at a weighted average price of $49.87 per share. In March 2009, the parent company completed the issuance of 47.4 million shares of its common stock at a price of $12.15 per share for proceeds of approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. The proceeds from the offering were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. 65 Table of Contents Market Equity as of December 31, 2009 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 149,258,376 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,813,552 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,634,517 $ 3,899,812 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market 66 Table of Contents price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 49.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.6% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 46.4% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total book capitalization is defined as the parent companys share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership unitholders plus stockholders equity. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of AMB Property, L.P. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt Guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships 67 Table of Contents liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 68 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (21,178 ) (66,007 ) (137,722 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In May 2008, the operating partnership sold $325.0 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes under its Series C medium term note program. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitation on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to $425.0 million of its other debt, related to the following loan facility. In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. The facility includes Euro and Yen tranches, with both the multi currency and the U.S. dollar components currently priced at 275 basis points over the applicable LIBOR index. This facility contains limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility, 69 Table of Contents which, as of December 31, 2009, had a balance of $55.5 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.68%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $182.9 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.7%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to further increase the facility to $750.0 million, to extend the maturity date to July 2011 and to allow for future borrowing in Indian rupees. As of December 31, 2009, this facility had a balance of $239.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009 and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and 70 Table of Contents net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash provided by operating activities was $242.3 million as compared to $301.0 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to lower net operating income in 2009 as well as changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash provided by investing activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $881.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is primarily due to an increase in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and decreases in the following: cash paid for property acquisitions, additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs, loans made to affiliated entities and the purchase of equity interests. This is partially offset by the decrease in repayment of mortgage and loan receivables. Cash used in financing activities was $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $581.8 million for the same period in 2008. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net borrowings on secured debt, other debt and unsecured credit facilities and an increase in payments on senior debt. This activity was partially offset by an increase in net proceeds from issuances of senior debt, an increase in the issuance of common and preferred units, a decrease in the repurchase of common units, and a decrease in distributions paid to common and preferred unitholders and noncontrolling interests. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding 149,028,965 common general partnership units; 2,119,928 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. 71 Table of Contents The net proceeds from the parent companys March 2009 offering of 47.4 million shares of common stock were contributed to the operating partnership in exchange for the issuance of 47.4 million general partnership units to the parent company. The operating partnership used the proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities. The proceeds were approximately $552.3 million, net of discounts, commissions and estimated transaction expenses of approximately $23.8 million. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions on a consolidated basis during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 1 Square feet 3,685,677 396,710 Estimated investment(1) $ 264,697 $ 17,396 Sold: Number of projects 3 2 Square feet 774,663 158,871 Estimated investment(1) $ 62,695 $ 37,686 Contributed: Number of projects 4 Square feet 2,122,056 Estimated investment $ $ 139,316 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 24 19 Square feet 6,669,855 5,834,143 Estimated investment(1) $ 567,634 $ 751,028 Total: Number of projects 38 26 Square feet 11,130,195 8,511,780 Estimated investment(1) $ 895,026 $ 945,426 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Square feet 1,977,185 73,927 498,017 Gross sales price $ 293,846 $ 26,116 $ 222,963 Net proceeds $ 254,888 $ 23,557 $ 208,795 Development profits, net of taxes $ 59,068 $ 7,235 $ 80,706 72 Table of Contents Development contribution activity during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Number of projects contributed to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 2 4 4 Square feet 428,180 2,723,003 1,006,164 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 2 Square feet 1,421,043 329,114 Number of land parcels contributed to AMB DFS Fund I, LLC 2 Square feet Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 2 8 Square feet 164,574 1,838,011 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 1 Square feet 981,162 891,596 469,627 Total number of contributed development assets 3 11 17 Total square feet 1,409,342 5,200,216 3,642,916 Gross contribution price $ 217,293 $ 374,878 $ 397,389 Net proceeds $ 56,822 $ 254,791 $ 378,531 Development profits, net of taxes $ 29,808 $ 73,849 $ 95,713 Development Sales and Contributions. During 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $59.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects and land parcels, aggregating approximately 2.0 million square feet. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $28.6 million as a result of the sale of development projects and 76 acres of land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2007, the operating partnership recognized development profits of approximately $95.7 million, as a result of the contribution of 15 completed development projects and two land parcels, aggregating approximately 82 acres of land, to AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. Also during 2008, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. During 2007, the operating partnership contributed operating properties for approximately $524.9 million, aggregating approximately 4.5 million square feet, into AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. The operating partnership also recognized a gain of $73.4 million in 2007 on the contributions, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third 73 Table of Contents party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for sale two properties with an aggregate net book value of $8.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 96% to an expected range of 15 20%. As of December 31, 2008, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 20 properties with an aggregate net book value of $600.8 million. As of December 31, 2009, no properties were reclassified from held for sale and properties with an aggregate net book value of $143.9 million were reclassified from held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, properties with an aggregate net book value of $100.4 million were reclassified from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. These properties may be reclassified as properties held for sale or held for contribution at some future time. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $2.2 million as a result of the reclassification, as well as impairment charges of $21.8 million on real estate assets held for divestiture or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. During 2007, the operating partnership sold industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $16.3 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $12.1 million. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the statements of operations. Value added Conversion Sales. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, including approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres, for an aggregate price of $143.9 million, with a resulting gain of approximately $53.0 million. No value added conversion projects were sold during 2008. During 2007, the operating partnership sold value added conversion projects, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $88.0 million, with a resulting gain of 74 Table of Contents approximately $52.1 million. These gains are presented in development profits, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership owned approximately 77.4 million square feet of its properties (49.9% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 20 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. In March 2008, the partners of AMB/Erie, L.P., sold their interests in the partnership to AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., including its final real estate asset, for a gain of $20.0 million. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Ownership Planned Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT III, Inc. 23 % $ 3,270,000 (2) AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS Institutional investors 21 % $ 1,260,000 (2) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 1,498,000 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 602,000 AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 85,000 (3) (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. (2) The planned capitalization and investment capacity of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. and AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, as open ended funds is not limited. The planned capitalization represents the gross book value of real estate assets as of the most recent quarter end. (3) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the planned capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2009 was the gross book value as of December 31, 2009 plus the estimated investment of $5.1 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the operating partnership also had a 100% consolidated interest in G. Accion, a Mexican real estate company, which has been renamed AMB Property Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (AMB 75 Table of Contents Property Mexico). AMB Property Mexico owns and develops real estate and provides real estate management and development services in Mexico. On June 13, 2008, the operating partnership acquired approximately 19% of additional equity interest and on July 18, 2008, it acquired the remaining equity interest (approximately 42%) in AMB Property Mexico, increasing its equity interest from approximately 39% to 100%. Through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, the operating partnership held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $18.7 million and $24.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.6%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market equity, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.1 billion, excluding insignificant unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.1 billion of secured debt, $771.3 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2009, bore interest at rates varying from 0.7% to 9.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.5%) and had final maturity dates ranging from February 2010 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2009, $622.4 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4%), while the remaining $474.1 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.0%). As of December 31, 2009, $610.5 million of the secured debt was held by co investment ventures. On September 4, 2008, the operating partnership entered into a $230.0 million secured term loan credit agreement set to mature on September 4, 2010. In December 2009, the operating partnership paid off the entire balance under this facility. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $482.9 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and had an average term of 2.8 years. Other debt also includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $50.0 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Of the remaining $432.9 million outstanding in other debt, $425.0 million is related to the loan facility described below. 76 Table of Contents In October 2009, the operating partnership refinanced its $325.0 million unsecured term loan facility, which was set to mature in September 2010, with a $345.0 million multi currency facility, maturing October 2012. In December 2009, the operating partnership exercised its option and increased the facility to $425.0 million, in accordance with the terms set forth in the credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the facility had an outstanding balance of $417.7 million, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2009. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. If the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. However, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay 77 Table of Contents its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, continued turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on June 1, 2010. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The line carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and the facility can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 15.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital 78 Table of Contents requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility was $55.5 million and the remaining amount available was $481.7 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $12.8 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $591.3 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 0.70%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The extension option is also subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 15.0 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2009, was $182.9 million, and the remaining amount available was $408.4 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling, and Euros with the ability to add Indian rupees. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things, and can be increased to up to $750.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2009, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009, was approximately $239.2 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.89%, and the remaining amount available was $260.8 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2009. 79 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Consolidated Joint Venture Unsecured Total Unconsolidated Senior Credit Other Secured Secured Other Consolidated Joint Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt 2010 $ 65,000 $ 238,429 $ 2,112 $ 189,562 $ 131,497 $ $ 626,600 $ 197,198 $ 823,798 2011 69,000 239,201 2,186 88,284 120,355 519,026 620,324 1,139,350 2012 426,385 27,764 388,113 50,000 892,262 449,870 1,342,132 2013 293,897 920 19,611 49,938 364,366 712,750 1,077,116 2014 616 5,659 6,275 855,551 861,826 2015 112,491 664 17,610 130,765 264,519 395,284 2016 250,000 16,231 266,231 73,102 339,333 2017 1,272 1,272 351,639 352,911 2018 125,000 1,455 126,455 183,194 309,649 2019 250,000 250,000 250,000 Thereafter 39,154 39,154 5,844 44,998 Subtotal $ 1,165,388 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,221 $ 771,284 $ 50,000 $ 3,222,406 $ 3,713,991 $ 6,936,397 Unamortized net (discount) premium (9,859 ) 273 (224 ) (9,810 ) (4,513 ) (14,323 ) Subtotal $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 771,060 $ 50,000 $ 3,212,596 $ 3,709,478 $ 6,922,074 Joint venture partners share of debt (433,601 ) (40,000 ) (473,601 ) (2,868,120 ) (3,341,721 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,155,529 $ 477,630 $ 432,883 $ 325,494 $ 337,459 $ 10,000 $ 2,738,995 $ 841,358 $ 3,580,353 Weighted average interest rate 6.4 % 0.8 % 3.9 % 3.5 % 4.9 % 5.8 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.7 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.0 2.8 1.0 2.7 2.7 3.5 4.1 3.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.6 billion. Includes $175.5 million of U.S. dollar borrowings, as well as $182.9 million, $93.0 million and $26.2 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 80 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2010 through 2013, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 65,000 $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 Credit Facilities 238,429 239,201 Other Debt 427,635 1,916 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 188,445 (3) 87,667 28,648 20,466 Subtotal 253,445 395,096 695,484 316,279 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 2,559 (4) 39,786 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 10,029 (5) 31,022 5,555 93,712 AMB SGP, L.P. 42,064 293,700 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 56,408 42,353 8,506 Subtotal 68,996 115,439 307,761 133,498 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 27,157 (6) 184,580 77,660 287,002 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 112,004 204,502 179,852 344,432 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 58,825 167,180 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 9,059 31,995 58,771 AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 6,381 5,018 Subtotal 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total Consolidated 322,441 510,535 1,003,245 449,777 Total Unconsolidated 148,220 479,902 431,073 695,223 Total $ 470,661 $ 990,437 $ 1,434,318 $ 1,145,000 Total Operating Partnerships Share(7) $ 323,530 $ 558,967 $ 940,365 $ 513,611 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2013, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Subsequent to year end, 10.2 billion yen ($109.7 million using the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) was repaid. (4) Subsequent to year end, $2.6 million was repaid at maturity. (5) Subsequent to year end, $4.7 million was refinanced and extended to maturity in 2014. (6) Subsequent to year end, $27.2 million was repaid. (7) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2010 through 2013 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. 81 Table of Contents Market Capital as of December 31, 2009 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 149,028,965 (5) $ 25.55 $ 3,807,690 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,376,141 $ 25.55 86,260 Total 152,405,106 $ 3,893,950 Total options outstanding 8,107,697 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $23.74 for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. (5) Includes 918,753 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 21.0 million square feet as of December 31, 2009 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part IV, Item 15: Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2009 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 46.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 49.5% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.6% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 46.4% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total book capitalization(1) 47.7% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2009. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total book capitalization is defined as the operating partnerships share of total debt plus noncontrolling interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership 82 Table of Contents unitholders plus stockholders equity. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $187.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $18.9 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $441 million while reducing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $713 million. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had $1.2 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 30%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2009, approximately $159.4 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Paying Entity Security 2009 2008 2007 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.56 $ 2.00 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units $ 2.69 $ 3.59 $ 3.64 The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash 83 Table of Contents distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Cash Flows from Operating Activities alone were not sufficient to pay such dividends and distributions, as shown in the table below. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 242,276 $ 301,020 $ 240,543 Distributions paid to partners (139,515 ) (224,549 ) (211,744 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (18,771 ) (61,934 ) (137,722 ) Excess (deficit) of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 83,990 $ 14,537 $ (108,923 ) Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 482,515 $ 421,647 $ 824,628 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 566,505 $ 436,184 $ 715,705 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 54 years. The buildings and improvements subject to these ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2010 $ 37,603 2011 35,943 2012 33,085 2013 31,393 2014 28,769 Thereafter 435,722 Total $ 602,515 84 Table of Contents Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in five unconsolidated co investment ventures of $392.6 million and a gross book value of $6.6 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $24.6 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This would increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. 85 Table of Contents Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 The Americas: Acres 4 197 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,537,632 Investment(1) $ 1,539 $ 88,436 Europe: Acres 2 72 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 67,805 1,613,087 Investment(1) $ 5,656 $ 66,850 Asia: Acres 38 111 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 4,371,377 Investment(1) $ 17,032 $ 61,776 Total: Acres 44 380 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,143,624 9,522,096 Investment(1) $ 24,227 $ 217,062 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Acquisition activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Number of properties acquired by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. 8 Square feet 1,622,649 Expected investment $ $ 171,694 Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS 3 Square feet 848,313 Expected investment $ $ 154,499 Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 10 Square feet 2,830,936 Expected investment $ $ 217,044 Total number of properties acquired 21 Total square feet 5,301,898 Total acquisition cost $ $ 529,574 Total acquisition capital 13,663 Total expected investment(1) $ $ 543,237 (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar 86 Table of Contents investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 626,600 $ 1,411,288 $ 370,641 $ 813,877 $ 3,222,406 Debt interest payments 19,894 54,756 22,136 50,543 147,329 Operating lease commitments 37,603 69,028 60,162 435,722 602,515 Total $ 684,097 $ 1,535,072 $ 452,939 $ 1,300,142 $ 3,972,250 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2009, the company had provided approximately $15.2 million in letters of credit, of which $12.8 million were provided under the operating partnerships $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 7 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $415.6 million as described below. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.4 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2009, the company also guaranteed $47.9 million and $106.7 million on outstanding loans on six of its consolidated joint ventures and four of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2009. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2009, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $5.1 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. 87 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations (FFO) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit (FFOPS) The company believes that net (loss) income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, or FFO, and FFO per share and unit, or FFOPS, to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS as FFO per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO as net (loss) income available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in FFO. However, the companys interpretation of FFO or FFOPS may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to FFO or FFOPS reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO. The company believes that FFO and FFOPS are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, FFO and FFOPS are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net (loss) income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of FFO and FFOPS, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers FFO and FFOPS to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO and FFOPS can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO and FFOPS are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, FFO and FFOPS do not represent cash flow from operations or net (loss) income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. FFO and FFOPS also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are FFO and FFOPS necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of FFO and FFOPS by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of FFO and FFOPS and a reconciliation of FFO and FFOPS to net (loss) income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 88 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) $ 305,241 Net loss (income) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership 789 782 (11,689 ) Net (loss) income available to common stockholders of the parent company (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (38,718 ) (22,561 ) (85,559 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Discontinued operations depreciation 2,042 5,011 6,436 Non real estate depreciation (8,593 ) (7,270 ) (5,623 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net income) 11,063 32,855 27,235 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net (loss) income) (3,625 ) (5,063 ) 6,019 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development gains) 2,377 2,822 7,148 FFO attributable to noncontrolling interests (26,695 ) (49,957 ) (62,902 ) Adjustments to derive FFO from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net loss (11,331 ) (17,121 ) (7,467 ) The companys share of FFO 42,938 42,742 27,391 Allocation to participating securities(1) (418 ) Funds from operations $ 99,275 $ 79,195 $ 363,102 Basic FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.78 $ 3.58 Diluted FFO per common share and unit $ 0.72 $ 0.77 $ 3.49 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 137,740,825 101,253,972 101,550,001 Diluted 137,903,929 102,734,827 103,961,648 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO distributed through declared dividends and allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 918,753, 855,919 and 652,838 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines net operating income, or NOI, as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment 89 Table of Contents losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers same store net operating income, or SS NOI, and cash basis SS NOI to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis. The company defines cash basis SS NOI as SS NOI excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2007. The company considers cash basis SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI help investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI and cash basis SSNOI are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, they do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI also do not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI. The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net (loss) income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net (loss) income $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) $ 371,716 Private capital revenues (37,879 ) (68,470 ) (31,707 ) Depreciation and amortization 179,894 164,188 157,290 Real estate impairment losses 174,410 183,754 900 General and administrative and fund costs 116,315 145,040 130,584 Restructuring charges 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 90,484 20,213 (95,235 ) Total discontinued operations (94,725 ) (4,558 ) (83,450 ) Net operating income 406,907 445,723 450,098 Less non same store NOI (77,719 ) (96,766 ) (28,414 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (398 ) (891 ) (6,214 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 328,790 $ 348,066 $ 415,470 Less lease termination fees (2,613 ) (5,498 ) (327 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 326,177 $ 342,568 $ 415,143 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. 90 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, the company had one outstanding interest rate swap, four outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts and two interest rate caps with an aggregate notional amount of $836.4 million (in U.S. dollars). See Financial Instruments below. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $9.8 million as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 194,579 $ 135,794 $ 507,872 $ 344,755 $ 6,275 $ 783,792 $ 1,973,067 $ 1,964,410 Average interest rate 7.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 6.4 % 6.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 432,021 $ 383,232 $ 384,390 $ 19,611 $ $ 30,085 $ 1,249,339 $ 1,223,420 Average interest rate 1.2 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 1.9 % % 1.7 % 1.8 % n/a Interest payments $ 19,894 $ 14,329 $ 40,427 $ 21,711 $ 425 $ 50,543 $ 147,329 n/a (1) Represents 61.2% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. (2) Represents 38.8% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2009. If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $2.3 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, variable rate debt comprised 38.8% and 38.0%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2009 were one interest rate swap and two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 91 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands): March 31, September 4, November 1, October 1, Notional Related Derivatives 2010 2010 2010 2012 Amount Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 Receive Floating(%) 3 mo. US LIBOR Pay Fixed Rate(%) 2.70 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ (1,992 ) $ (1,992 ) Interest Rate Caps (USD) Trade Notional Amount $ 7,319 $ 7,319 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 3.15 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ Trade Notional Amount $ 26,500 $ 26,500 Underlying Rate 1 mo. US LIBOR Strike Price 4.25 % Fair Market Value (USD) $ 141 $ 141 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts FX Forward Contract, Euro Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 339,732 $ 339,732 Forward Strike Rate 1.4380 3/31/2010 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.4328 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 1,228 $ 1,228 FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 189,879 $ 189,879 Forward Strike Rate 1.0467 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ (20 ) $ (20 ) FX Forward Contract, CAD Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 74,053 $ 74,053 Forward Strike Rate 1.0463 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 16 $ 16 FX Forward Contract, GBP Trade Notional Amount (USD) $ 68,949 $ 68,949 Forward Strike Rate 1.6208 3/31/10 Forward Rate as of 12/31/2009 1.6169 Fair Market Value (USD) $ 168 $ 168 $ 836,432 $ (459 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The (losses) gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $(22.0) million and $23.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange 92 Table of Contents rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $(7.2) million, $(5.7) million and $3.9 million, respectively. 
 
