Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources for the operating partnerships definitions of market equity and the operating partnerships share of total debt. As this ratio percentage increases directly with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent companys capital stock, an unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. There can also 20 Table of Contents be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to distribute to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing its co investment ventures, which could adversely impact its private capital business. Other Real Estate Industry Risks The companys performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate assets. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If the companys properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then the operating partnerships ability to pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent company) and, in turn, the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. Income from, and the value of, the companys properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, such as the current one, including diminished access to or availability of capital (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending existing debt) and rising inflation (see Risks of the Current Economic Environment); local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of the companys properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; the companys ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States and in other countries, rising interest rates, diminished access to or availability of capital or declining demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing the companys acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect the companys financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of the companys properties. To the extent that future attacks impact the companys customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. The companys properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if the companys portfolio included other property types. The company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or relet space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the companys occupancy average was 91.2% year to date and the leases on 16.4% of the companys industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to December 31, 2011. The company derives most of its income from rent received from its customers. Accordingly, the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and its ability to pay 21 Table of Contents dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. There can be no assurance that the company will be able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases, increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally realize the potential of its currently low yielding assets (including the build out and leasing of its development platform). Periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect the companys leasing activities. If a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. Further, the companys ability to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties the company has to compete with to appeal to customers. The company could be adversely affected if a significant number of its customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. The companys results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of the parent companys stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of the companys customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. In the current economic environment, it is likely that customer bankruptcies will increase. If a customer seeks the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customers lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction of cash flow to the company. In the event of a significant number of lease defaults and or tenant bankruptcies, the companys cash flow may not be sufficient to pay distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and repay maturing debt and any other obligations. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the company did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.1%. However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of the companys customers, the company may incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect the companys earnings and financial condition. The economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real estate valuations, which has required the company to recognize real estate impairment charges on its assets. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the first test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. As a result of changing market conditions, the company may need to re evaluate the carrying value of its investments and recognize real estate impairment losses on certain of its investments. The principal trigger which has led to impairment charges in the recent past was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. Impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions deteriorate and 22 Table of Contents impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the companys unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the companys investments in its unconsolidated co investment ventures. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. The equity method is used when the company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the joint venture but does not have control of the joint venture. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company did not record any impairment on its investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures. There can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions the company uses to assess impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. A worsening real estate market may cause the company to reevaluate the assumptions used in its impairment analysis and its intent to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. Impairment charges could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations and its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. The companys performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in California. As of December 31, 2010, the companys industrial properties located in California represented 21.1% of the aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties and 19.7% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. The companys revenue from, and the value of, its properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact Californias economic climate. Because of the number of properties the company has located in California, a downturn in Californias economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. A number of the companys properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. The companys largest concentration of such properties is in California where, on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 29.9 million square feet, on an owned and managed basis. International properties located in active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. The company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. The company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it expects. On a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire U.S. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or interests in property owning or real estate related entities and platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could increase the companys size and alter its capital and organizational structure. Such acquisitions entail various risks, including the risks that the companys investments may not perform or be accretive to the companys 23 Table of Contents value as it expects, that it may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate its new acquisitions into its existing operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, that portfolio acquisitions may include non core assets, that the new investments may come with unexpected liabilities and that the companys cost estimates for developing or bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. The company may not be able to acquire assets at values above the companys cost of capital. In addition, the company expects to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from private or public equity or debt offerings (including issuances of operating partnership units) and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available at favorable pricing or at all and which could adversely affect the companys cash flow. Further, the company faces significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including both publicly traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors and funds. This competition increases as quality investment opportunities arise at favorable pricing and investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, the company may be unable to make additional investments as it desires or the purchase price of the investments may be significantly elevated. Also, the company may incur significant transaction related costs in exploring and pursuing potential transactions it may not consummate. Any of the above risks could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint ventures, attracting third party investment and owning properties through joint ventures and other investment vehicles. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 91.4 million square feet of the companys properties were held through joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. The companys organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to form new joint ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or realize value from such joint ventures. The companys inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the companys growth, its earnings and the market price of the parent companys securities. Joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the joint venture investments. Joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if the companys joint venture partners go bankrupt, then the company and any other remaining partners may generally remain liable for the investments liabilities; if the companys joint venture partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then the company may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a portion of the joint ventures debt, which may require the company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the joint venture; the companys joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the companys business interests or goals that would affect the companys ability to operate the property; the companys joint venture partners may have the power to act contrary to the companys instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including its current policy with respect to maintaining the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may otherwise restrict the companys ability to sell the interest when it desires or on advantageous terms; 24 Table of Contents the companys relationships with its joint venture partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, the company may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above market price to continue ownership; disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the companys expenses and prevent its officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on the companys business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its joint venture partners. The company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company may not be successful in contributing properties to its co investment ventures. The company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its co investment ventures on a case by case basis. However, the company may fail to contribute properties to its co investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. If the co investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the value of properties to be contributed or sold to the co investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. A delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects on the companys liquidity and on its ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period, which could have an adverse effect on the companys results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its securities. The company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at all. The company may divest itself of properties, which are currently in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not meet its strategic objectives. The company may, in certain circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. The companys ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including competition from other sellers, current market conditions (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties) and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its properties. If the company is unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact the market price of the parent companys stock. Actions by the companys competitors may affect the companys ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the companys properties. The company competes with other owners, operators and developers of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the companys properties in the same submarkets in which the companys properties are located. If the companys competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to divest in the same markets and or at valuations below the companys valuations for comparable assets, the company may be unable to divest its 25 Table of Contents assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. In addition, if the companys competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates the company currently charges its customers, the company may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently charges in order to retain customers when its customers leases expire. As a result, the companys financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and dividends and, trading price of the parent companys stock and ability to satisfy the operating partnerships debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. The company may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at all. On a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop, renovate and redevelop properties. After the financial and real estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and complete the build out and leasing of its development platform. The company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties in newly formed development joint ventures into which the company may contribute assets. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock, which include the following risks: the company may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable, contributing properties to a joint venture; the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and the companys share of remaining funding may exceed the companys estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; the company may not be able to attract third party investment in new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for its product; the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by its value added conversion projects on its expected timetables or at all; the company may not be able to successfully form development joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures; the company may fail to contribute properties to its co investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as future redemptions; the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to its activities; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of managements time and attention, diverting their attention from the companys day to day operations; and upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for activities that it has financed through construction loans. 26 Table of Contents Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for the company to respond promptly to changing conditions. Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number of properties that the parent company, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that the parent company makes to the properties. In addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of the companys subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, which result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. These limitations may affect the companys ability to sell properties. This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code restrictions may limit the companys ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of the parent companys stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the operating partnerships ability to access capital necessary to meet its debt payments and other obligations. Risks Associated with the Companys International Business The companys international activities are subject to special risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its international business. The company acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties and operating platforms outside the United States. Because local markets affect the companys operations, the companys international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which the company invests. Access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all, in certain locations. In addition, the companys international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of the companys international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights, terrorist or gang related activities, civil unrest and political instability. The company cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. Further, the company has entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. The company cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide it with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Further, even if the company is able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, the company could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. The company also has offices in many countries outside the United States and, as a result, the companys operations may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the United States, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from the companys usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. The companys global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) subjects the company to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and these currencies. Further, the companys business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. If the proposed merger with ProLogis is completed, the risks associated with the combined companys 27 Table of Contents international business will be enhanced due to the combined companys larger international presence. If the company fails to effectively manage its international growth or integrate the combined companys international operations in the event the merger is completed, then the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected. The company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which it invests. The company may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a strategic and selective basis. As the company invests in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national currency, the company is subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. A significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where the company has a significant investment may materially affect its results of operations. The company attempts to mitigate any such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. The company cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, where the company may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. The company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in international markets that are new to it. When the company acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. The company works to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. General Business Risks The company faces risks associated with short term liquid investments. The company continues to have significant cash balances that it invests in a variety of short term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. From time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly): direct obligations issued by the U.S. Treasury; obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies; taxable municipal securities; obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts; commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short term U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks; repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset backed obligations; both registered and unregistered money market funds; and other highly rated short term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances the company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment, and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that the companys investments in these 28 Table of Contents securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline in the value of the companys investment or a delay or suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on the companys results of operations or financial condition. The company may experience losses that its insurance does not cover. The company carries commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that it owns and manages in types and amounts that it believes are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co payments and policy limits. Although the company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that the company considers commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, the company cannot be certain that it will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. In addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in the companys industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. The company may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and it may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. Given current market conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies providing the companys coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to the company. Furthermore, the company cannot assure you that its insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If the company experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds its insured limits with respect to one or more of its properties or if the companys insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to it in the event of an insured loss, then the company could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then the company would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company generally will be liable for all of the operating partnerships unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co investment ventures. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. A number of the companys properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. The companys largest concentration of such properties is in California where, on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 29.9 million square feet and representing 21.1% of its industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 19.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. International properties located in active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. The company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. A number of the companys properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and or flood risk. The company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the companys financial condition. The company has acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against the company based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then the company might have to 29 Table of Contents pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of the companys insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to its formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the companys properties. Risks Associated with the Companys Dependence on Key Personnel The company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, the companys personnel and their roles may change. As part of the companys cost savings plan in 2008 and 2009, the company has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in the future. In connection with the completion of the proposed merger with ProLogis, there may be additional changes to the companys personnel and their roles that impact the combined company. While the company believes that it has retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock. The company currently does not have employment agreements with any of its executive officers, other than agreements that may be contingent on the completion of the proposed merger with ProLogis. Because the companys compensation packages include equity based incentives, pressure on the parent companys stock price or limitations on the companys ability to award such incentives could affect the companys ability to offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and key employees. If the company is unable to continue to attract and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, the companys performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Federal Income Tax Risks The parent companys failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders. The parent company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997. The parent company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believes that the parent companys current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable it to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. However, it is possible that the parent company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that the parent companys future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. Qualification as a real estate investment trust requires the parent company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the parent companys control. For example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, the parent company must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of 30 Table of Contents its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. While historically the parent company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, the parent company can satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions are met. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent companys case because it holds its assets through the operating partnership. If the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless the parent company is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which the parent company lost its qualification. If the parent company lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent companys net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, the parent company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders. Furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, the parent companys interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by the parent company from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on the parent companys ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus the parent companys ability to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, the company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its properties, including by contributing properties to its co investment venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties the company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. The company does not believe that its transfers or disposals of property or its contributions of properties into its co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by the company or contributions of properties into the companys co investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. While the company believes that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, the company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the company from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the companys ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. The parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. The parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. Up to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, and in some 31 Table of Contents cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, could be payable in the parent companys stock if certain conditions are met. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of the parent companys current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the parent companys stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non U.S. stockholders, the parent company may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of the parent companys stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of the parent companys stock. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent companys stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the parent company or any limited partner of the operating partnership. Conflicts of Interest Risks Some of the companys directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with the company. From time to time, certain of the companys executive officers and directors may own interests in other real estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. The companys executive officers involvement in other real estate related activities could divert their attention from the companys day to day operations. The companys executive officers have entered into non competition agreements with the company pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. State law may limit the companys ability to enforce these agreements. The company will not acquire any properties from its executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange) members of the parent companys board of directors with respect to that transaction. The parent companys role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of its stockholders. As the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has fiduciary obligations to the operating partnerships limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of the parent companys stockholders. In addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnerships partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of the parent companys stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the operating partnerships partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. 32 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Government Regulations The costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed the companys budgets for these items. Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under, in or from its property. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws typically impose liability and clean up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of the companys properties are known to contain asbestos containing building materials. In addition, some of the companys properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of the companys properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, the company may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where the company believes that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk adjusted return. In such an instance, the company underwrites the costs of environmental investigation, clean up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. At the time of acquisition, the company subjects all of its properties to a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and the company may have additional Phase II testing performed upon the consultants recommendation. These environmental assessments have not revealed, and the company is not aware of, any environmental liability that it believes would have a material adverse effect on the companys financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to the company, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than the company anticipated. Further, the companys properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed the companys budgets for these items, then the companys financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders, and the market price of the parent companys stock could be adversely affected. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If the company is required to make 33 Table of Contents unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then the companys cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders may be adversely affected. The companys properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. The company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails to comply with these requirements. While the company believes that its properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its cash flow and results of operations. Risks Associated with Ownership of the Parent Companys Stock Limitations in the parent companys charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of the parent companys charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of the parent companys common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the common stock. To maintain the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the parent companys outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. Furthermore, the parent companys common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12 month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In addition, if the parent company, or an owner of 10% or more of the parent companys stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of the parent companys customers (or a customer of any partnership in which the company is a partner), then the rent received by the parent company (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help the parent company maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, the parent company prohibits the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of the parent companys common stock, series L preferred stock, series M preferred stock, series O preferred stock, and series P preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by the parent companys board of directors). The parent company refers to this limitation as the ownership limit. The charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. The charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. The ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the parent companys stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the shares of the parent companys common stock in connection with such transaction. The parent companys charter authorizes it to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that the parent company issues. The parent companys board of directors could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent companys stockholders. The parent companys charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without the approval of the parent companys board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. The parent companys charter and bylaws include the following provisions: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two thirds vote of stockholders; the parent companys board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the parent companys board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the 34 Table of Contents remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent companys common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. Maryland law includes the following provisions: a two thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the parent companys charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. In addition, the parent companys board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under Maryland law that may impede a change in control. If the parent company issues additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the company is dependent on external sources of capital and the parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the companys future capital needs. The company has the authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., one of the companys subsidiaries, to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or the parent company and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholders investment. In addition, in the event the proposed merger with ProLogis is completed, the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted based on the exchange ratio of ProLogis shares of common stock into the companys shares, which will result in current AMB stockholders owning approximately 40% of the combined company. Earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the parent companys stock. As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the market value of the parent companys equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the markets perception of the parent companys growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value of the parent companys equity securities is based secondarily upon the market value of its underlying real estate assets. For this reason, shares of the parent companys stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its net asset value per share. To the extent that the parent company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the parent companys underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of its stock. The parent companys failure to meet the markets expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock. Further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of the parent companys stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the parent companys stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the parent companys stocks market price. Additionally, if the market price of the parent companys stock declines significantly, then the operating partnership might breach certain covenants with respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect the companys liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnerships ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. The parent companys board of directors has decided to align the parent companys regular dividend payments with the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone. The parent company may make special 35 Table of Contents distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity. In the past, the parent companys board of directors has suspended dividends to the parent companys stockholders, and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide to pay dividends partially in the parent companys own stock as provided for in the Internal Revenue Code. The parent company could change its investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. Subject to the parent companys current investment policy to maintain the parent companys qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the parent companys board of directors under certain circumstances), the parent companys board of directors determines the companys investment and financing policies, its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. The parent companys board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may not serve the interests of all of the parent companys stockholders or the operating partnerships unitholders and could adversely affect the companys financial condition or results of operations, including its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders and distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders. Shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the parent companys common stock. The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had 3,041,743 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010, all of which are currently exchangeable on a one for one basis into shares of the parent companys common stock. In the future, the operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may issue additional limited partnership units, and the parent company may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. These shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that the parent company has granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, common stock issued under the companys stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that the parent company has filed or pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31, 2010, under the companys stock option and incentive plans, the company had 4,014,453 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 8,694,938 shares of common stock (of which 6,361,551 are vested and exercisable and 5,731,803 have exercise prices below market value at December 31, 2010) and had 1,202,122 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of the parent companys common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the parent companys common stock. Further, the existence of the common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and the shares of the parent companys common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which the parent company is able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Risks Associated with the Companys Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting The companys business could be adversely impacted if it has deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that the companys internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Furthermore, the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that the company does not control or manage or third party entities that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited than those the company maintains with respect to the subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the course of 36 Table of Contents time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the companys internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the companys results of operations, restatements of its financial statements, a decline in the parent companys stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the companys business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2010, the company owned and managed 1,128 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 141.9 million rentable square feet (on a consolidated basis, the company had 697 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 79.8 million rentable square feet), excluding development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution, located in 49 global markets throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. The companys industrial properties were 93.7% leased to 2,655 customers, the largest of which accounted for no more than 3.1% of the companys annualized base rent from its industrial properties. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information related to the companys operations. Property Characteristics. The companys industrial properties, which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple customers, are typically comprised of multiple buildings. The following table identifies types and characteristics of the companys industrial buildings and each types percentage, based on square footage, of the companys total owned and managed operating portfolio: December 31, Building Type Description 2010 2009 Warehouse Customers typically 15,000 75,000 square feet, single or multi customer 56.0 % 55.3 % Bulk Warehouse Customers typically over 75,000 square feet, single or multi customer 34.7 % 34.8 % Flex Industrial Includes assembly or research development, single or multi customer 3.3 % 3.6 % Light Industrial Smaller customers, 15,000 square feet or less, higher office finish 2.2 % 2.3 % Air Cargo On tarmac or airport land for transfer of air cargo goods 2.3 % 2.4 % Trans Shipment Unique configurations for truck terminals and cross docking 1.0 % 1.0 % Office Single or multi customer, used strictly for office 0.5 % 0.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Lease Terms. The companys industrial properties are typically subject to leases on a triple net basis, in which customers pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs, or are subject to leases on a modified gross basis, in which customers pay expenses over certain threshold levels. In addition, most of the companys leases include fixed rental increases or Consumer Price Index based rental increases. Lease terms typically range from three to ten years, with a weighted average of six years, excluding renewal options. However, the majority of the companys industrial leases do not include renewal options. 37 Table of Contents Overview of Our Global Market Presence. The companys industrial properties are located in the following markets: The Americas Europe Asia Atlanta Orlando Amsterdam Beijing Austin Quertaro Bremerhaven Guangzhou Baltimore/Washington D.C. Reynosa Brussels Nagoya Boston Rio de Janeiro Frankfurt Osaka Chicago San Francisco Bay Area Hamburg Seoul Dallas/Ft. Worth Sao Paulo Le Havre Shanghai Guadalajara Savannah London Singapore Houston Seattle Lyon Tokyo Mexico City South Florida Madrid Minneapolis Southern California Milan Monterrey Tijuana Paris New Orleans Toronto Rotterdam Northern New Jersey/New York City Within these metropolitan areas, the companys industrial properties are generally concentrated in locations with limited new construction opportunities within established, relatively large submarkets, which we believe should provide a higher rate of occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere. These infill locations are typically near major airports or seaports or convenient to major highway systems and rail lines, and are proximate to large and diverse labor pools. There is typically broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution, light assembly and manufacturing. The company generally avoids locations at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer constraints to the supply of additional industrial properties. 38 Table of Contents Portfolio Overview The following includes the companys owned and managed operating portfolio and development properties, investments in operating properties through non managed unconsolidated joint ventures, and recently completed developments that have not yet been placed in operations but are being held for sale or contribution: 2010 Trailing Four The Companys Annualized Same Store NOI Quarters Rent Square Feet Share of Square 2010 Base Rent(1) Growth Without Change on as of Feet as of Average psf as of Lease Renewals and 12/31/2010 12/31/2010 Occupancy 12/31/2010 Termination Fees(2) Rollovers(3) Southern California 18,851,649 60.3 % 93.1 % $ 6.33 (0.1 )% (18.4 )% Chicago 13,092,788 59.4 % 90.8 % 4.90 (2.7 )% (21.2 )% No. New Jersey/New York 13,023,043 60.6 % 87.8 % 6.99 (9.1 )% (14.1 )% San Francisco Bay Area 11,049,083 77.6 % 92.8 % 6.31 (1.7 )% (1.5 )% Seattle 7,883,361 58.5 % 90.5 % 5.45 (8.2 )% (10.0 )% South Florida 7,033,688 69.6 % 96.7 % 6.95 6.5 % (29.2 )% U.S. On Tarmac(4) 2,597,717 90.3 % 88.3 % 18.68 (4.6 )% (5.5 )% Other U.S. Markets 28,321,937 66.3 % 87.7 % 5.23 (7.9 )% (19.9 )% U.S. Total/Wtd Avg 101,853,266 65.0 % 90.8 % $ 6.23 (4.1 )% (15.1 )% Canada 3,564,450 100.0 % 99.0 % $ 5.70 28.7 % (19.7 )% Mexico City 4,584,491 42.4 % 95.5 % 5.56 (5.4 )% (7.3 )% Guadalajara 3,390,137 33.0 % 92.0 % 4.49 (12.8 )% (4.3 )% Other Mexico Markets 1,089,347 71.8 % 72.2 % 4.27 (66.4 )% (20.2 )% Mexico Total/Wtd Avg 9,063,975 42.4 % 91.6 % $ 5.04 (11.1 )% (7.0 )% The Americas Total/Wtd Avg 114,481,691 64.3 % 90.8 % $ 6.12 (3.8 )% (14.6 )% France 5,117,512 45.9 % 96.8 % $ 7.31 (6.9 )% (9.3 )% Germany 3,935,466 48.9 % 96.5 % 7.97 (4.5 )% (7.3 )% Benelux 3,370,999 47.9 % 85.1 % 9.61 (13.0 )% (10.0 )% Other Europe Markets 1,065,173 53.3 % 100.0 % 10.89 0.9 % n/a Europe Total/Wtd Avg(5) 13,489,150 47.9 % 93.6 % $ 8.32 (7.4 )% (9.1 )% Tokyo 6,385,887 34.1 % 93.5 % 16.99 5.3 % (6.4 )% Osaka 2,423,978 34.0 % 92.8 % 13.17 11.1 % 3.6 % Japan Total/Wtd Avg(5) 8,809,865 34.0 % 93.3 % $ 15.92 6.6 % (4.6 )% China 3,563,325 100.0 % 85.3 % $ 4.49 (22.7 )% (0.8 )% Singapore 941,601 100.0 % 96.4 % 10.36 (5.5 )% 2.0 % Other Asia Markets 593,898 100.0 % 92.3 % 7.42 (9.4 )% (19.3 )% Asia Total/Wtd Avg(5) 13,908,689 58.2 % 91.8 % $ 12.27 (11.6 )% (0.8 )% Owned and Managed Total/Wtd Avg(6) 141,879,530 62.2 % 91.2 % $ 6.95 (3.2 )% (11.9 )% Other Real Estate Investments(7) 7,495,959 51.8 % 86.9 % 5.60 Total Operating Portfolio 149,375,489 61.6 % 91.0 % $ 6.89 Development Construction in Progress 2,174,164 61.2 % Pre Stabilized Developments(8) 6,779,649 96.5 % Development Portfolio Subtotal 8,953,813 87.9 % Value added acquisitions(9) 1,228,355 95.5 % Total Global Portfolio 159,557,657 63.4 % (1) Annualized base rent (ABR) is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2010, multiplied by 12. (2) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why management believes same store cash basis NOI is a useful supplemental measure for the companys management and investors, ways to use this measure when assessing the companys financial performance, and the limitations of the measure as a measurement tool. (3) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former tenants term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current 39 Table of Contents lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. (4) Includes domestic on tarmac air cargo facilities at 14 airports. (5) Annualized base rent for leases denominated in foreign currencies is translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2010 (6) Owned and managed is defined by the company as assets in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which the company currently intends to hold for the long term. (7) Includes investments in operating properties through the companys investments in unconsolidated joint ventures that it does not manage, and are therefore excluded from the companys owned and managed portfolio, and the location of the companys global headquarters. (8) Represents development projects available for sale or contribution that are not included in the operating portfolio. (9) Represents unstabilized properties which the company acquires as a part of managements current belief that the discount in pricing attributed to the operating challenges of the property could provide greater returns, once stabilized, than the returns of stabilized properties, which are not value added acquisitions. Value added acquisitions generally have one or more of the following characteristics: (i) existing vacancy, typically in excess of 20%, (ii) short term lease rollover, typically during the first two years of ownership, or (iii) significant capital improvement requirements, typically in excess of 20% of the purchase price. The company excludes value added acquisitions from its owned and managed and consolidated operating statistics prior to stabilization (generally 90% leased) in order to provide investors with data which it feels better reflects the performance of its core portfolio. Lease Expirations(1) The following table summarizes the lease expirations for the companys owned and managed operating properties for leases in place as of December 31, 2010, without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations: Square Annualized Base % of Annualized Year Feet Rent (000s)(2)(3) Base Rent(2) 2011 24,678,703 $ 157,484 16.4 % 2012 20,514,077 149,209 15.5 2013 20,978,848 152,484 15.9 2014 17,227,612 136,384 14.2 2015 17,959,862 129,908 13.5 2016 10,444,104 67,006 7.0 2017 6,370,671 46,050 4.8 2018 3,914,378 31,429 3.3 2019 5,558,011 38,742 4.0 2020+ 6,115,141 50,882 5.4 Total 133,761,407 $ 959,578 100.0 % (1) Schedule includes leases that expire on or after December 31, 2010. Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties which the company defines as properties in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which the company currently intends to hold for the long term. (2) Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of, December 31, 2010, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used. Leases denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2010. (3) Apron rental amounts (but not square footage) are included. 40 Table of Contents Customer Information(1) Top Customers. As of December 31, 2010, the companys largest customers by annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis, are set forth in the table below: Annualized Base Rent % of Annualized Square Customer(2) (000s)(3) Base Rent(3)(4) Feet 1 Deutsche Post World Net (DHL)(5) $ 28,197 3.1 % 3,106,516 2 United States Government(5)(6) 20,349 2.2 1,357,525 3 Sagawa Express 19,968 2.2 1,172,253 4 Nippon Express 15,258 1.7 1,029,170 5 FedEx Corporation(5) 14,369 1.6 1,291,035 6 Kuehne + Nagel Inc. 12,807 1.4 2,044,892 7 Panalpina 10,992 1.2 1,703,945 8 Caterpillar Logistics Services 8,950 1.0 543,039 9 Panasonic Logistics 7,992 0.9 620,273 10 BAX Global/Schenker/Deutsche Bahn(5) 7,697 0.8 811,450 Top 10 customers $ 146,579 16.1 % 13,680,098 Top 11 20 customers 54,982 5.9 7,308,110 Top 20 customers $ 201,561 22.0 % 20,988,208 (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. (2) Customer(s) may be a subsidiary of or an entity affiliated with the named customer. (3) Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2010, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used. Leases denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the currency exchange rate at December 31, 2010. (4) Computed as aggregate annualized base rent divided by the aggregate annualized base rent of operating properties. (5) Airport apron rental amounts (but not square footage) are included. (6) United States Government includes the United States Postal Service, United States Customs, United States Department of Agriculture and various other U.S. governmental agencies. 41 Table of Contents OWNED AND MANAGED OPERATING AND LEASING STATISTICS Owned and Managed Operating and Leasing Statistics(1) The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for all of the companys owned and managed operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Operating Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 Square feet owned(2)(3) 141,879,530 132,639,328 131,508,119 Occupancy percentage(3) 93.7 % 91.2 % 95.1 % Average occupancy percentage 91.2 % 91.4 % 94.9 % Weighted average lease terms (years): Original 6.2 6.3 6.2 Remaining 3.3 3.5 3.4 Trailing four quarters tenant retention 69.6 % 61.2 % 71.5 % Trailing four quarters rent change on renewals and rollovers:(4) Percentage (11.9 )% (6.9 )% 3.1 % Same space square footage commencing (millions) 24.4 21.7 18.4 Trailing four quarters second generation leasing activity:(5) Tenant improvements and leasing commissions per sq. ft.: Retained $ 1.42 $ 1.14 $ 1.43 Re tenanted $ 2.54 $ 2.61 $ 3.23 Weighted average $ 2.02 $ 1.73 $ 2.02 Square footage commencing (millions) 31.1 27.0 22.0 (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. This excludes development and renovation projects, recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution and value added acquisitions. (2) As of December 31, 2010, the company had investments in 7.3 million square feet of operating properties through its investments in non managed unconsolidated joint ventures and 152,000 square feet, which is the location of its global headquarters. (3) On a consolidated basis, the company had approximately 79.8 million rentable square feet with an occupancy rate of 93.0% at December 31, 2010. (4) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net annualized base rent (ABR) due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former customers term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. (5) Second generation tenant improvements and leasing commissions per square foot are the total cost of tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other leasing costs incurred during leasing of second generation space divided by the total square feet leased. Costs incurred prior to leasing available space are not included until such space is leased. Second generation space excludes newly developed square footage or square footage vacant at acquisition. 42 Table of Contents Owned and Managed Same Store Operating Statistics(1) The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for the companys owned and managed same store operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008: Same Store Pool(2) 2010 2009 2008 Square feet in same store pool(3) 126,035,571 113,692,509 100,912,256 % of total square feet 88.8 % 85.7 % 76.7 % Occupancy percentage(3) 93.2 % 90.9 % 94.8 % Average occupancy percentage 91.0 % 91.6 % 94.6 % Weighted average lease terms (years): Original 6.2 6.2 5.8 Remaining 3.2 3.2 2.8 Trailing four quarters tenant retention 63.5 % 61.1 % 71.7 % Trailing four quarters rent change on renewals and rollovers:(4) Percentage (12.6 )% (7.7 )% 2.7 % Same space square footage commencing (millions) 23.8 20.2 17.3 Growth % increase (decrease) (including straight line rents): Revenues(5) (2.2 )% (2.3 )% 3.4 % Expenses(5) (0.7 )% 2.8 % 5.0 % Net operating income, excluding lease termination fees(5)(6) (2.8 )% (4.2 )% 2.8 % Growth % increase (decrease) (excluding straight line rents): Revenues(5) (2.5 )% (2.5 )% 4.0 % Expenses(5) (0.7 )% 2.8 % 5.0 % Net operating income, excluding lease termination fees(5)(6) (3.2 )% (4.5 )% 3.7 % (1) Schedule includes owned and managed operating properties. This excludes development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution. (2) Same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting years. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments completed (generally defined as properties that are stabilized or have been substantially complete for at least 12 months) after December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Stabilized is generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied. (3) On a consolidated basis, the company had approximately 68.5 million square feet with an occupancy rate of 92.3% at December 31, 2010. (4) Rent changes on renewals and rollovers are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month of a term commencement and the net ABR due the last month of the former customers term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is first generation or there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation. 43 Table of Contents (5) As of December 31, 2010, on a consolidated basis, the percentage change was (1.8)%, 0.4% and (2.7)% respectively, for revenues, expenses and NOI (including straight line rents) and (3.1)%, 0.4% and (4.6)%, respectively, for revenues, expenses and NOI (excluding straight line rents). (6) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures for a discussion of same store net operating income and cash basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation of same store net operating income and cash basis same store net operating income and net income. DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES Development Portfolio(1) The following table sets forth the development portfolio of the company as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 Expected 2012 Expected Total Construction in Pre Stabilized Completions(2) Completions(2) Progress Developments(3) Total Development Portfolio Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated % of Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Total Estimated Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Square Feet Investment(4) Investment(4) The Americas United States 557,915 $ 66,701 $ 557,915 $ 66,701 1,312,326 $ 158,646 1,870,241 $ 225,347 24.0 % Other Americas 639,264 57,462 221,233 11,625 860,497 69,087 1,228,613 87,250 2,089,110 156,337 16.7 % The Americas Total 1,197,179 $ 124,163 221,233 $ 11,625 1,418,412 $ 135,788 2,540,939 $ 245,896 3,959,351 $ 381,684 40.7 % Europe France $ $ $ 647,976 $ 49,299 647,976 $ 49,299 5.3 % Germany 139,608 18,053 139,608 18,053 1.9 % Benelux 669,881 94,583 669,881 94,583 10.1 % Other Europe 444,043 44,789 444,043 44,789 4.7 % Europe Total $ $ $ 1,901,508 $ 206,724 1,901,508 $ 206,724 22.0 % Asia Japan $ $ $ 1,811,434 $ 292,730 1,811,434 $ 292,730 31.2 % China 281,218 13,699 474,534 21,264 755,752 34,963 525,768 22,225 1,281,520 57,188 6.1 % Asia Total 281,218 $ 13,699 474,534 $ 21,264 755,752 $ 34,963 2,337,202 $ 314,955 3,092,954 $ 349,918 37.3 % Total 1,478,397 $ 137,862 695,767 $ 32,889 2,174,164 $ 170,751 6,779,649 $ 767,575 8,953,813 $ 938,326 100.0 % Real estate impairment losses(5) (985 ) (67,592 ) (68,577 ) Estimated total investment, net of real estate impairment losses(4) $ 169,766 $ 699,983 $ 869,749 Number of Projects 5 3 8 25 33 AMBs Weighted Average Ownership Percentage 37.2 % 100.0 % 49.3 % 96.3 % 87.8 % Remainder to Invest $ 39,752 $ 23,725 $ 63,477 $ 19,384 $ 82,861 The Companys Share of Remainder to Invest(6)(7)(8) $ 11,421 $ 23,725 $ 35,146 $ 19,277 $ 54,423 Weighted Average Estimated Yield(7)(8)(9) 9.2 % 8.7 % 9.1 % 6.2 % 6.8 % Weighted Average Estimated Yield, net of real estate impairment losses(8)(9) 9.2 % 9.0 % 9.2 % 6.8 % 7.3 % Percent Pre Leased(10) 63.2 % 22.1 % 50.0 % 56.2 % 54.7 % (1) Includes investments held through unconsolidated joint ventures. (2) Completions are generally defined as properties that are stabilized or have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. (3) Pre stabilized development represents assets which have reached completion but have not reached stabilization. Stabilization is generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied. 44 Table of Contents (4) Represents total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at December 31, 2010. We cannot assure you that any of these projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts. Includes value added conversion projects. (5) See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of real estate impairment losses. (6) Amounts include capitalized interest as applicable. (7) Calculated using estimated total investment before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. (8) Calculated as the companys share of amounts funded to date to its share of estimated total investment. (9) Yields exclude value added conversion projects and are calculated on an after tax basis for international projects. (10) Represents the executed lease percentage of total square feet as of the balance sheet date. PROPERTIES HELD THROUGH CO INVESTMENT VENTURES, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND PARTNERSHIPS The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. The following table summarizes the companys nine consolidated and unconsolidated significant co investment ventures as of December 31, 2010: Principal Incentive Date Geographic Venture Functional Distribution Co investment Venture Established Focus Investors Currency Frequency Term AMB SGP, L.P. March 2001 United States Subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd. USD 10 years March 2011; extendable 10 years(3) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. June 2001 United States Various USD At dissolution December 2014 (estimated) AMB AMS, L.P. June 2004 United States Various USD At dissolution December 2012; extendable 4 years AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(1) October 2004 United States Various USD 3 years (next 2Q11) Open end December 2011; extendable 7 AMB SGP Mexico, LLC December 2004 Mexico Subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd. USD 7 years years(3) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. June 2005 Japan Various JPY At dissolution June 2013; extendable 2 years AMB DFS Fund I, LLC(2) October 2006 United States Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC USD Upon project sales Upon final sale(2) AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS(1) June 2007 Europe Various EUR 3 years (next 2Q13) Open end AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. December 2010 Brazil University endowment investor BRL At dissolution December 2017; extendable 2 years 45 Table of Contents (1) Effective January 1, 2010, the name of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. was changed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. Effective October 29, 2010, the name of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS was changed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. (2) For AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, the investment period ended in June 2009. The fund will terminate upon completion and disposition of assets currently owned and under development by the fund. (3) For AMB SGP, L.P. and AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, as of December 31, 2010, the company was in the process of evaluating the options for extension or termination of the co investment ventures upon their upcoming termination dates in 2011 per the terms of their respective partnership agreements. In addition, on August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. The functional currency of this co investment venture is U.S. dollars and incentive distributions will be made upon dissolution of the venture. Initial contributions were made by the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions are held by a third party trustee, which is not consolidated by the company, and, as such, the cash investment and equity interest of the third party investors are not reflected on the companys consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, no investments had been made in real estate properties within this co investment venture. Consolidated Joint Ventures As of December 31, 2010, the company held interests in co investment ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with institutional investors and other third parties, which it consolidates in its financial statements. Under the agreements governing the co investment ventures, the company and the other party to the co investment venture may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the co investment ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of co investment venture interests by the company or the other party to the co investment venture and typically provide certain rights to the company or the other party to the co investment venture to sell the companys or their interest in the co investment venture to the co investment venture or to the other co investment venture partner on terms specified in the agreement. In addition, under certain circumstances, many of the co investment ventures include buy/sell provisions. See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 11 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 46 Table of Contents The table that follows summarizes the companys consolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): The Companys Gross Ownership Square Book Property Other Consolidated Joint Ventures Percentage Feet(1) Value(2) Debt Debt Operating Co investment Ventures AMB SGP, L.P.(3) 50 % 8,216,247 $ 479,635 $ 327,301 $ AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P.(4) 24 % 7,321,372 518,516 184,292 54,300 AMB AMS, L.P.(5) 39 % 2,170,337 160,985 75,650 Total Operating Co investment Ventures 37 % 17,707,956 1,159,136 587,243 54,300 Total Consolidated Co investment Ventures 37 % 17,707,956 1,159,136 587,243 54,300 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 80 % 2,917,634 372,536 62,210 Other Industrial Development Joint Ventures 48 % 249,169 181,600 81,776 Total Consolidated Joint Ventures 48 % 20,874,759 $ 1,713,272 $ 731,229 $ 54,300 (1) For development properties, represents the estimated square feet upon completion for committed phases of development projects. (2) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture and excludes net other assets as of December 31, 2010. Development book values include uncommitted land. (3) AMB SGP, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2001 with Industrial JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. (4) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2001 with institutional investors, which invest through a private real estate investment trust, and a third party limited partner. (5) AMB AMS, L.P. is a co investment partnership formed in 2004 with three Dutch pension funds. Unconsolidated Joint Ventures As of December 31, 2010, the company held interests in six significant equity investment co investment ventures that are not consolidated in its financial statements. 47 Table of Contents The table that follows summarizes the companys unconsolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): The Companys Gross The Companys Estimated Planned Ownership Square Book Property Other Net Equity Investment Gross Unconsolidated Joint Ventures Percentage Feet(1) Value(2) Debt Debt Investment Capacity Capitalization Operating Co Investment Ventures AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(3) 35% 37,521,062 $ 3,422,176 $ 1,596,010 $ $ 374,881 $ 190,000 $ 3,612,000 AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS(4) 38% 10,522,627 1,334,753 647,288 172,903 300,000 1,635,000 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P.(5) 20% 7,263,093 1,720,824 929,158 9,857 82,482 1,721,000 AMB SGP Mexico , LLC(6) 22% 6,405,922 360,410 163,769 148,438 20,646 360,000 Total Operating Co investment Ventures 31% 61,712,704 6,838,163 3,336,225 158,295 650,912 490,000 7,328,000 Development Co investment Ventures: AMB DFS Fund I , LLC(7) 15% 200,027 86,022 14,426 86,000 AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(3) 35% 557,915 98,829 34,496 n/a n/a AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P.(8) 25% 639,264 54,838 32,910 390,000 445,000 Total Development Co investment Ventures 25% 1,397,206 239,689 81,832 390,000 531,000 Total Unconsolidated Co investment Ventures 31% 63,109,910 7,077,852 3,336,225 158,295 732,744 880,000 7,859,000 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures(9) 51% 7,419,049 287,932 153,513 51,043 n/a n/a Total Unconsolidated Joint Ventures(10) 32% 70,528,959 $ 7,365,784 $ 3,489,738 $ 158,295 $ 783,787 $ 880,000 $ 7,859,000 (1) For development properties, represents the estimated square feet upon completion for committed phases of development projects. (2) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture and excludes net other assets as of December 31, 2010. Development book values include uncommitted land. (3) An open ended co investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, which invest through a private real estate investment trust, and a third party limited partner. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company made investments of $200 million in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. No investments were made in 2009. (4) A Euro denominated open ended co investment venture with institutional investors. The institutional investors have committed approximately 263.0 million Euros (approximately $352.1 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2010) for an approximate 62% equity interest. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company made investments of $100 million in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. No investments were made in 2009. (5) A Yen denominated co investment venture with 13 institutional investors. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen (approximately $609.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2010) for an approximate 80% equity interest. (6) A co investment venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation. Other debt includes $89.6 million of loans from co investment venture partners. (7) A co investment venture with Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC. The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and the remaining capitalization of this fund as of December 31, 2010 was the estimated investment of $6.6 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. Since inception, the company has contributed $28.8 million of equity to the fund. During the years ended 48 Table of Contents December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company contributed approximately $0.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively, to this co investment venture. (8) A Brazilian Real denominated co investment venture with a third party university endowment partner. The third party investor has committed approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2010) for a 50% equity interest. This consolidated co investment venture does not hold any properties directly, but holds a 50% equity interest in the unconsolidated joint venture previously established with the companys joint venture partner Cyrela Commercial Properties. This structure results in an effective 25% equity interest for the company in the ventures underlying development assets. During 2010, this joint venture completed the acquisition of 106 acres of land in Sao Paulo, Brazil and 86 acres of land in Rio de Janeiro and commenced development of 0.6 million square feet of properties. (9) Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures includes joint ventures between the company and third parties which generally have been formed to take advantage of a particular market opportunity that can be accessed as a result of the joint venture partners experience in the market. The company typically owns 40 60% of these joint ventures. (10) In addition to the net equity investment in the table, the company, through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the company entered into a mortgage debt investment joint venture with a third party partner, in which it held an equity interest of $86.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Under the agreements governing the co investment ventures, the company and the other parties to the co investment ventures may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the co investment ventures may incur additional debt. 49 Table of Contents The following table presents property related transactions for the companys unconsolidated co investment ventures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): AMB Brazil Logistics AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS AMB SGP Mexico, LLC AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Partners Fund I, L.P.(1) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Number of properties acquired 9 8 5 3 Square feet 2,231,719 1,622,649 1,458,691 848,313 Acquisition cost(2) $ 174,783 $ $ 171,694 $ 131,640 $ $ 154,499 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Development properties contributed by the Company: Square feet 428,180 2,723,003 179,693 164,574 1,421,042 981,162 891,596 Gross contribution price $ $ 32,500 $ 208,111 $ 22,391 $ $ 35,199 $ $ $ 90,500 $ $ 184,793 $ 174,938 $ $ $ $ $ $ Development gains (losses) on contribution $ $ 1,220 $ 36,778 $ (171 ) $ $ 6,643 $ $ $ 13,723 $ $ 28,588 $ 17,151 $ $ $ $ $ $ Industrial operating properties contributed by the Company: Square feet 821,712 Gross contribution price $ $ $ 66,175 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Gains on contribution $ $ $ 11,457 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Development properties sold: Square feet 1,081,974 138,500 Land acreage (whole acres) 6 Gross Sales Price $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 53,629 $ 1,016 $ $ $ Industrial operating properties sold: Square feet 660,725 568,662 Gross Sales Price $ 36,391 $ 46,584 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ (1) Represents activity within the companys unconsolidated joint venture with Cyrela Commercial Properties, of which AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. holds a 50% equity interest. (2) Includes estimated total acquisition expenditures of approximately $3.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for properties acquired by AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS during the year ended December 31, 2010. 50 Table of Contents ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings As of December 31, 2010, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which the company was a party or of which any of the companys properties was the subject, the adverse determination of which the company anticipated would have a material adverse effect upon the companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Subsequent to year end, the parent company and the operating partnership have been named as defendants in at least two pending putative shareholder class actions filed in connection with the merger of the parent company and ProLogis: James Kinsey, et al. v. ProLogis, et al., no. 2011CV818, filed on or about February 2, 2011 in the Denver County District Court, Colorado; and Vernon C. Burrows, et al. v. ProLogis, et al., filed on or about February 15, 2011, in the Circuit Court of Maryland for Baltimore City. The complaint seeks to enjoin the merger, alleging, among other things, that ProLogis directors and certain executive officers breached their fiduciary duties by failing to maximize the value to be received by ProLogis shareholders and by improperly considering certain directors personal interests in the transaction in determining whether to enter into the merger agreement. The Maryland complaint also includes a derivative claim on behalf of ProLogis based upon the same allegations. Both complaints also assert a claim of aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against ProLogis, the parent company and the merger entitles. The Colorado complaint also asserts a claim of aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against the operating partnership. In addition to an order enjoining the transaction, the complaints seek, among other things, attorneys fees and expenses, and the Maryland complaint further seeks certain monetary damages. The parent company and the operating partnership view the complaints to be without merit and intend to defend against them vigorously. ITEM 4. (Removed and Reserved) 51 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (AMB Property Corporation) The parent companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AMB. As of February 16, 2011, there were approximately 453 holders of record of the parent companys common stock. Set forth below are the high and low sales prices per share of the parent companys common stock, as reported on the NYSE composite tape, and the dividend per share paid or payable by the parent company during the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010: Year High Low Dividend 2010 1st Quarter $ 29.60 $ 21.80 $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 29.17 23.14 0.280 3rd Quarter 26.97 22.05 0.280 4th Quarter 32.18 26.14 0.280 2009 1st Quarter $ 26.03 $ 9.12 $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 20.75 13.81 0.280 3rd Quarter 25.96 15.91 0.280 4th Quarter 27.43 20.71 0.280 The payment of dividends and other distributions by the parent company is at the discretion of its board of directors and depends on numerous factors, including the parent companys cash flow, financial condition and capital requirements, real estate investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (AMB Property, L.P.) There is no established public trading market for the operating partnerships partnership units. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding 179,865,400 partnership units, consisting of 177,806,670 general partnership units (consisting of 168,506,670 common units, 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units, 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units, 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units) and 2,058,730 common limited partnership units. The series L preferred units were issued on June 23, 2003 to the parent company for total consideration of $50.0 million. The series M preferred units were issued on November 25, 2003 to the parent company for total consideration of $57.5 million. The series O preferred units were issued on December 13, 2005 to the parent company for total consideration of $75.0 million. The series P preferred units were issued on August 25, 2006 to the parent company for total consideration of $50.0 million. Subject to certain terms and conditions, the common limited partnership units are redeemable by the holders thereof or, at the operating partnerships option, exchangeable on a one for one basis for shares of the common stock of the parent company. As of December 31, 2010, there were 43 holders of record of our common limited partnership units (including the parent companys general partnership interest). During 2010, the operating partnership redeemed 61,198 common limited partnership units for the same number of shares of the parent companys common stock. In addition, during 2010, the operating partnership 52 Table of Contents redeemed no common limited partnership units for cash. Set forth below are the distributions per common limited partnership unit paid by us during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Year Dividend 2010 1st Quarter $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 0.280 3rd Quarter 0.280 4th Quarter 0.280 2009 1st Quarter $ 0.280 2nd Quarter 0.280 3rd Quarter 0.280 4th Quarter 0.280 53 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following line graph compares the change in the parent companys cumulative total stockholder return on shares of its common stock from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2010 to the cumulative total return of the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2010. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in the common stock of the parent company and each of the indices on December 31, 2005 and, as required by the SEC, the reinvestment of all dividends. The return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among AMB Property Corporation, The SP 500 Index And The FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index *$100 invested on 12/31/05 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2011 SP, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. This graph and the accompanying text are not soliciting material, are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by reference in any filing by the company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA(1) (AMB Property Corporation) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the parent company on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2010 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,500 $ 618,424 $ 677,659 $ 635,901 $ 679,400 Income (loss) from continuing operations(3) 9,352 (124,182 ) (17,919 ) 281,519 210,425 Income from discontinued operations 24,242 96,222 11,169 90,197 78,388 Net income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 Net income (loss) 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders 9,967 (50,077 ) (66,451 ) 293,552 207,970 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common stockholders per common share: Basic (0.08 ) (1.01 ) (0.77 ) 2.17 1.54 Diluted (0.08 ) (1.01 ) (0.77 ) 2.12 1.49 Income from discontinued operations available to common stockholders per common share: Basic 0.14 0.64 0.09 0.85 0.83 Diluted 0.14 0.64 0.09 0.83 0.80 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders per common share: Basic 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.68 ) 3.02 2.37 Diluted 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.68 ) 2.95 2.29 Dividends declared per common share 1.12 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 161,988,053 134,321,231 97,403,659 97,189,749 87,710,500 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 161,988,053 134,321,231 97,403,659 99,601,396 90,960,637 Other Data Funds from operations (FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 $ 367,653 $ 303,279 FFO as adjusted, per common share and unit:(4) Basic 1.27 2.10 2.95 3.62 3.29 Diluted 1.27 2.09 2.90 3.54 3.19 Core Funds from operations (Core FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 $ 201,115 $ 198,253 Core FFO as adjusted, per common share and unit:(4) Basic 1.23 1.46 2.19 1.98 2.15 Diluted 1.22 1.46 2.16 1.93 2.08 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 252,760 243,113 302,614 240,543 335,855 Investing activities (586,628 ) 84,097 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) Financing activities 329,734 (298,354 ) 580,171 420,025 483,621 Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,906,176 $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 Total assets 7,372,895 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 Total consolidated debt 3,331,299 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 Parent companys share of total debt(5) 3,989,563 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 Preferred stock 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 Stockholders equity (excluding preferred stock) 3,097,311 2,716,604 2,291,695 2,540,540 1,943,240 (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per share calculations. (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the 55 Table of Contents partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, included in the parent companys operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) Loss from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $172.1 million and $182.9 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, income (loss) from continuing operations included restructuring charges of $4.9 million, $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted are useful supplemental measures of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO, as adjusted or Core FFO, as adjusted when assessing the parent companys financial performance, and the limitations of FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted as measurement tools. (5) Parent companys share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that parent companys share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 56 Table of Contents SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA (1) (AMB Property, L.P.) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the operating partnership on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2010 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) (dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,500 $ 618,424 $ 677,659 $ 635,901 $ 679,400 Income (loss) from continuing operations(3) 9,352 (124,182 ) (17,919 ) 281,519 210,425 Income from discontinued operations 24,242 96,222 11,169 90,197 78,388 Net income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 Net income (loss) 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders 10,122 (50,866 ) (67,233 ) 305,241 217,419 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (0.08 ) (1.02 ) (0.75 ) 2.13 1.53 Diluted (0.08 ) (1.02 ) (0.75 ) 2.08 1.48 Income from discontinued operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic 0.14 0.65 0.09 0.88 0.83 Diluted 0.14 0.65 0.09 0.86 0.80 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 3.01 2.36 Diluted 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 2.94 2.28 Distributions declared per common unit 1.12 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 Weighted average common unit outstanding basic 164,290,475 136,484,612 101,253,972 101,550,001 92,047,678 Weighted average common units outstanding diluted 164,290,475 136,484,612 101,253,972 103,961,648 95,297,815 Other Data Funds from operations (FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 $ 367,653 $ 303,279 FFO, as adjusted per common unit:(4) Basic 1.27 2.10 2.95 3.62 3.29 Diluted 1.27 2.09 2.90 3.54 3.19 Core Funds from operations (Core FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 $ 201,115 $ 198,253 Core FFO, as adjusted per common unit:(4) Basic 1.23 1.46 2.19 1.98 2.15 Diluted 1.22 1.46 2.16 1.93 2.08 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 252,760 243,113 302,614 240,543 335,855 Investing activities (586,628 ) 84,097 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) Financing activities 329,734 (298,354 ) 580,171 420,025 483,621 Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,906,176 $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 Total assets 7,372,895 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 Total consolidated debt 3,331,299 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 Operating partnerships share of total debt(5) 3,989,563 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 Preferred units 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 Partners capital (excluding preferred units) 3,135,084 2,755,165 2,342,526 2,610,574 2,095,835 (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per unit calculations. 57 Table of Contents (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, included in the operating partnerships operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) Loss from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $172.1 million and $182.9 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, income (loss) from continuing operations included restructuring charges of $4.9 million, $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted are useful supplemental measures of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO, as adjusted or Core FFO, as adjusted when assessing the parent companys financial performance, and the limitations of FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted as measurement tools. (5) Operating partnerships share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the operating partnerships leverage and to compare the operating partnerships leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 58 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Overview The global economic recovery gained momentum in 2010, which made it possible for the company to successfully execute on its key growth initiatives for the year. In recognition of the improving capital markets and operating fundamentals around the world, management believes that the company has a leading position and competitive advantage in pursuing growth opportunities. As such, the companys three priorities for 2011 are to: increase the utilization of its assets; scale the organization and become more profitable; and form new co investment ventures and funds. Management believes the pace of the global economic recovery is strengthening and expects to see earnings growth if the company is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the lease up of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. Management believes the U.S. is in the early stages of the inventory rebuilding process and that the slower than normal rebuild does not signify a secular change in global supply chain practices, but rather inventories were drawn down to unsustainable levels due to stronger than anticipated holiday retail sales. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is currently evaluating multiple opportunities in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. Additionally, management believes its existing and new private capital co investment ventures and joint ventures are well positioned to benefit from the expected shift in customer demand for high quality, well located industrial real estate. Strength of Balance Sheet and Liquidity The company completed more than $1.9 billion of financings during the fourth quarter. This activity included $1.5 billion of wholly owned debt consisting of the renewal of its two lines of credit, a corporate term loan, a new bond issuance, and $391 million for its co investment ventures in Europe, Japan and the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed financings of approximately $4.0 billion. These transactions further improved and extended the weighted average remaining life of the companys share of debt to 4.8 years from 3.8 years at an average interest rate of 4.6 percent. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of total debt to share of total assets was 43 percent, which includes its share of joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of liquidity was approximately $1.6 billion, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of availability on its lines of credit and more than $260 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. Real Estate Operations Fundamentals in the U.S. industrial real estate market further improved in the fourth quarter. According to CBRE Econometric Advisors, the availability rate declined 30 basis points to 14.3% and net absorption was positive 33.2 million square feet. This is the largest improvement in net absorption in three years as well as more than four times the level reached in the third quarter. The recovery was more broad based in the fourth quarter with approximately three quarters of the markets in the U.S. reflecting positive net absorption, which represents a 25 point increase from the third quarter. Availabilities in the coastal markets declined 30 basis points to 12.0% after peaking at 12.5% in the first quarter 2010. The company continues to believe that record low construction, when met by stronger demand, will drive the availability rate back down and that there will be a substantial improvement in net absorption in 2011. Cash basis same store net operating income (SS NOI), without the effects of lease termination fees, increased 0.9 percent during the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009, driven by increases in occupancy. This increase in quarterly SS NOI marked the first positive year over year performance since the fourth quarter of 2008. SS NOI for the full year 2010 decreased 3.2 percent. 59 Table of Contents Rent changes on rollovers declined 11.9% on a trailing four quarter basis and decreased 11.6% for the quarter. Rent changes on rollover were negative for 2010, although management believes net effective rents have bottomed in most of the companys markets today. Capital Deployment The company commenced new development in the fourth quarter totaling approximately 695,800 square feet (64,640 square meters) and approximately 1.6 million square feet (150,150 square meters) during 2010 in Brazil, China and Mexico, with an estimated total investment of $102.9 million. During the quarter, acquisitions totaled $144.2 million, including $54.5 million for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $89.7 million for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. The company also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, the company held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Private Capital Business During 2010, the company raised a record $781.4 million in third party private equity. As of December 31, 2010, the company had assets under management in nine significant co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $8.2 billion. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million using the same exchange rate, at full deployment. During 2010, in addition to the commitments of third party equity in AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. and AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, the companys two open ended funds received capital commitments comprising $257.0 million in third party equity in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in third party equity in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. As of July 13, 2010, the members of AMB SGP Mexico, LLC agreed to an early termination of the investment period of, and acquisition exclusivity in favor of, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. Equity holders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, there was no redemption queue for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 60 Table of Contents Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed the following significant transactions: Issued approximately 18.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $27.50 per share, generating approximately $479 million in net proceeds; Issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.50% due 2017; Issued $175.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.00% due 2018; Acquired 16 properties aggregating approximately 4.8 million square feet for an aggregate price of $343.3 million, including approximately 1.1 million square feet for $36.9 million for the company, as well as 2.2 million square feet for $174.8 million and 1.5 million square feet for $131.6 million, respectively, for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, which are unconsolidated co investment ventures; Acquired a 50% equity interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million; Acquired three land parcels totaling 192 acres in Brazil for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $39.9 million, the companys first acquisitions with the companys joint venture partner, CCP, and commenced development of 0.6 million square feet of properties; Formed AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and contributed the companys equity investment in the companys joint venture with CCP into AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P.; Formed AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico, with third party institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans; Contributed two completed development projects aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units with a fair value of $22.4 million; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet to third parties, including 0.2 million square feet that was part of an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $36.4 million, of which $12.5 million related to the installment sale; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 1.7 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $94.5 million; Invested $200 million in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $100 million in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS; and Raised $781.4 in third party equity commitments to the companys unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part I, Item 1, Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and 61 Table of Contents on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical 62 Table of Contents operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. These amendments require an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Additionally, they require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary and provide a framework for the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, and the company has adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. The company has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this guidance, and it did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States on the net income it distributes currently to its shareholders if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities 63 Table of Contents may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2008 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2010, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 68.5 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Acquired:(1) Number of properties 2 10 Square feet (in thousands) 1,143 2,831 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ 36,886 $ $ 217,044 Development Properties Sold or Contributed:(2) Square feet (in thousands)(3) 665 3,387 5,274 (1) Includes value added acquisitions. (2) Excludes value added acquisitions. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2010, the square footage includes 0.2 million square feet related to an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 64 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 483.0 $ 497.4 $ (14.4 ) (2.9 )% Development 31.2 22.5 8.7 38.7 % Other industrial 88.4 60.5 27.9 46.1 % Total rental revenues 602.6 580.4 22.2 3.8 % Private capital revenues 30.9 38.0 (7.1 ) (18.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.5 $ 618.4 $ 15.1 2.4 % Same store rental revenues decreased $14.4 million from the prior year due primarily to decreased average occupancy and rental rates and increased free rent, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $8.7 million is primarily due to increased occupancy of the companys development portfolio as the company continues lease up of the development pool, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $27.9 million primarily reflects the further lease up of the companys development portfolio and higher occupancy, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010, partially offset by increased free rent. The decrease in private capital revenues of $7.1 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and asset management fees recognized in 2010 as compared to fees recognized in the prior year for incentive distributions received from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., partially offset by an increase in acquisition fees recognized in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 110.7 $ 107.2 $ 3.5 3.3 % Real estate taxes 78.0 76.0 2.0 2.6 % Total property operating costs $ 188.7 $ 183.2 $ 5.5 3.0 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 148.0 $ 151.2 $ (3.2 ) (2.1 )% Development 16.9 10.3 6.6 64.1 % Other industrial 23.8 21.7 2.1 9.7 % Total property operating costs 188.7 183.2 5.5 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization 196.6 175.3 21.3 12.2 % General and administrative 124.4 115.3 9.1 7.9 % Restructuring charges 4.9 6.4 (1.5 ) (23.4 )% Fund costs 0.8 1.1 (0.3 ) (27.3 )% Real estate impairment losses 172.1 (172.1 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 3.2 8.7 (5.5 ) (63.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 518.6 $ 662.1 $ (143.5 ) (21.7 )% The decrease in same store operating expenses of $3.2 million from the prior year was primarily due to decreased average occupancy along with a decrease in repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and real estate taxes, partially offset by an increase in ground rent expense. The 65 Table of Contents increase in development operating costs of $6.6 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes and other operating expenses due to continued lease up and higher occupancy of the development portfolio. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $2.1 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and ground rent expenses during 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $21.3 million is primarily due to increased asset stabilizations and assets moving out of the held for sale or contribution pools in the early part of 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $9.1 million is primarily due to an increase in professional service expenses, an increase in stock compensation amortization related to additional issuances of stock options and restricted stock in 2010 and a reduction in capitalized development costs, partially offset by decreases in tax expense, office expenses and insurance expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recorded $4.9 million in restructuring charges associated with severance and the termination of certain contractual obligations, as compared to $6.4 million recorded in 2009, due to the further implementation of a previously initiated cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The company did not record any real estate impairment losses in 2010. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009. Other expenses decreased $5.5 million primarily as a result of a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan as well as a decrease in dead deal costs from prior year, partially offset by an increase of acquisition costs in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 6.7 $ 35.9 $ (29.2 ) (81.3 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.4 11.3 6.1 54.0 % Other income 3.5 3.5 % Interest expense, including amortization (130.3 ) (118.9 ) 11.4 9.6 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (2.9 ) (12.3 ) (9.4 ) (76.4 )% Total other income and (expenses), net $ (105.6 ) $ (80.5 ) $ (25.1 ) (31.2 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.9 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million. This includes the installment sale of approximately 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million with development profits of $3.9 million recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development losses of approximately $0.2 million, as a result of the contribution of two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet, to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units in the fund. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $6.1 million in 2010 was primarily due to impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management during 2009. Interest expense increased $11.4 million over the same period in 2009 primarily due to an additional bond issuance in the fourth quarter of 2009, along with higher line utilization in 2010. Loss on early extinguishment of debt decreased by 66 Table of Contents $9.4 million primarily due to the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.0 $ 4.5 $ (0.5 ) (11.1 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 (53.0 ) (100.0 )% Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 20.2 38.7 (18.5 ) (47.8 )% Total discontinued operations $ 24.2 $ 96.2 $ (72.0 ) (74.8 )% During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company did not sell any value added conversion development projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 (9.8 ) (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (6.0 ) $ (9.8 ) 163.3 % No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2010. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 497.4 $ 560.8 $ (63.4 ) (11.3 )% Development 22.5 11.7 10.8 92.3 % Other industrial 60.5 36.7 23.8 64.9 % Total rental revenues 580.4 609.2 (28.8 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 38.0 68.5 (30.5 ) (44.5 )% Total revenues $ 618.4 $ 677.7 $ (59.3 ) (8.8 )% 67 Table of Contents Same store rental revenues decreased $63.4 million in 2009 from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended 2008 would have been $522.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $25.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $10.8 million is primarily due to further lease up of the development pool and increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $23.8 million primarily reflects further lease up of the development pool and an increase in the number of projects that reached these levels of operation in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions from AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. For the Years Ended Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 107.2 $ 98.0 $ 9.2 9.4 % Real estate taxes 76.0 75.9 0.1 0.1 % Total property operating costs $ 183.2 $ 173.9 $ 9.3 5.3 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 151.2 $ 157.2 $ (6.0 ) (3.8 )% Development 10.3 2.1 8.2 390.5 % Other industrial 21.7 14.6 7.1 48.6 % Total property operating costs 183.2 173.9 9.3 5.3 % Depreciation and amortization 175.3 161.0 14.3 8.9 % General and administrative 115.3 143.9 (28.6 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 172.1 182.9 (10.8 ) (5.9 )% Other expenses 8.7 0.5 8.2 1,640.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 662.1 $ 675.6 $ (13.5 ) (2.0 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $147.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008. The increase of $3.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $8.2 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of 68 Table of Contents the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $7.1 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and administrative expenses due to an increase in the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $14.3 million was primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.6 million in 2009 was primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. The increase in other expenses of $8.2 million was primarily due to changes in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan in 2009 as compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs from amounts recognized in 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expense) 3.5 (3.1 ) 6.6 212.9 % Interest expense, including amortization (118.9 ) (134.3 ) (15.4 ) (11.5 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.5 ) $ (20.0 ) $ (60.5 ) (302.5 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres, for an aggregate sales price of $26.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, 69 Table of Contents a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income (expense) increased $6.6 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income due to lower cash balances and interest rates in 2009 and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $15.4 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates in 2009. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.5 $ 8.6 $ (4.1 ) (47.7 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 96.2 $ 11.2 $ 85.0 758.9 % The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to higher real estate impairment losses recognized in 2009 on properties sold through December 31, 2010 or held for sale as of December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. No value added conversion development projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which was disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 (62.0 )% On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. 70 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 1.8% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2010: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. 71 Table of Contents In September 2010, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock. The parent company has not repurchased any shares of its common stock under this program. Market Equity as of December 31, 2010 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 168,736,081 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,350,621 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,777,824 $ 5,447,075 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships 72 Table of Contents organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.0% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total assets was approximately $9.3 billion. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. 73 Table of Contents Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 74 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (193,428 ) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (13,374 ) (21,178 ) (66,007 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its other debt obligations related to the following two facilities. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. These term loans contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, 75 Table of Contents which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. This facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. As of December 31, 2010, this facility had a balance of $139.5 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to extend the maturity date to July 2012. As of December 31, 2010, this facility, maturing in July 2011, had a balance of $129.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; 76 Table of Contents net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; investments in existing or newly formed joint ventures; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, cash provided by operating activities was $252.8 million as compared to $243.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash used in investing activities was $586.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $84.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and an increase in additions to interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, partially offset by a decrease in additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs. Cash provided by financing activities was $329.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $298.4 million for the same period in 2009. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net payments on unsecured credit facilities and an increase in net proceeds from issuance of senior debt, net of payments. This activity was partially offset by a decrease in the issuance of common units, an increase in distributions paid and an increase in net payments on other debt. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding 168,506,670 common general partnership units; 2,058,730 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions 77 Table of Contents on a consolidated basis, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 Square feet 3,685,677 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 264,697 Sold: Number of projects 3 Square feet 774,663 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 62,695 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 13 24 Square feet 4,504,551 6,669,855 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 567,634 Total: Number of projects 13 38 Square feet 4,504,551 11,130,195 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 895,026 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010(1) 2009 2008 Square feet 485,022 1,977,185 73,927 Gross sales price $ 36,372 $ 293,846 $ 26,116 Net proceeds $ 35,089 $ 254,888 $ 23,557 Development profits, net of taxes $ 6,910 $ 59,068 $ 7,235 (1) Includes the installment sale of 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million gross sales price ($12.0 million net proceeds) with development gains of $3.9 million recognized in the year ended December 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 78 Table of Contents Development contributions to co investment ventures during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Number of projects contributed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 2 4 Square Feet 428,180 2,723,003 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 Square Feet 1,421,043 Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 2 2 Square Feet 179,693 164,574 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 Square Feet 981,162 891,596 Total number of contributed development assets 2 3 11 Total square feet 179,693 1,409,342 5,200,216 Gross contribution price $ 22,391 $ 217,293 $ 508,748 Net proceeds $ 22,391 $ 56,822 $ 394,025 Development (losses) profits, net of taxes $ (171 ) $ 29,808 $ 73,849 Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by third party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for sale ten properties with an aggregate net book value of $55.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures eight properties with an aggregate net book value of $186.2 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 90% to an expected range of less than 40%. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million. As of December 31, 2010, no properties were reclassified from held for sale or held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership recognized $1.2 million of additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million as a result of similar reclassifications, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. 79 Table of Contents Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership owned approximately 80.8 million square feet of its properties (50.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. Estimated investment capacity in AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, including the total equity contributions of $315.3 million, is $600 million. 80 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 24 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Operating Estimated Ownership Partnerships Net Investment Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Equity Investment Capacity(1) AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(2) AMB U.S. Logistics REIT, Inc. 35 % $ 409,377 $ 190,000 (3) AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS Institutional investors 38 % $ 172,903 $ 300,000 (3) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 82,482 $ AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 20,646 $ AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 14,426 $ (4) AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. Major university endowment 25 % $ 32,910 $ 390,000 (1) AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico has additional investment capacity of $600 million as of December 31, 2010. (2) Effective January 1, 2010, the name of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. was changed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. Effective October 29, 2010, the name of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS was changed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. (3) The investment capacity of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, as open ended funds, is not limited. Investment capacity is estimated based on the cash of the fund and additional leverage and may change. (4) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and, as of December 31, 2010, the remaining estimated investment is $6.6 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. In addition to the equity investments shown above, the operating partnership, through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the company entered into a mortgage debt investment joint venture with a third party partner and held an equity interest of $86.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize 81 Table of Contents its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market capital, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.0 billion, excluding $0.1 million of unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.0 billion of secured debt, $731.2 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2010, bore interest at rates varying from 1.0% to 8.3% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.3%) and had final maturity dates ranging from July 2011 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2010, $695.7 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1%), while the remaining $266.6 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.3%). As of December 31, 2010, $586.8 million of the secured debt before unamortized premiums was held by co investment ventures, including the AMB SGP, L.P. loan agreement discussed below. On February 14, 2007, seven subsidiaries of AMB SGP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which is a subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into a loan agreement for a $305.0 million secured financing. On the same day, pursuant to the loan agreement, the same seven subsidiaries delivered four promissory notes to the two lenders, each of which mature in March 2012. One note has a principal of $160.0 million and an interest rate that is fixed at 5.29%. The second note has an initial principal borrowing of $40.0 million with a variable interest rate of 81.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The third note has an initial principal borrowing of $84.0 million and a fixed interest rate of 5.90%. The fourth note has an initial principal borrowing of $21.0 million and bears interest at a variable rate of 135.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The aggregate principal amount outstanding under this loan agreement as of December 31, 2010 was $289.1 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In August 2010 and November 2010, the operating partnership issued senior unsecured notes of $300.0 million at 4.50% due 2017 and $175.0 million at 4.00% due 2018, respectively. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $414.0 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and had an average term of 3.3 years. Other debt includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $54.3 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2010. The remaining $359.7 million outstanding in other debt, using the exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010, is related to the term loans discussed below. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, 82 Table of Contents in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These unsecured credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2010. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. A downgrade in the operating partnerships credit ratings on its long term debt could adversely affect its business and financial condition. A decrease in the operating partnerships credit ratings could cause a negative reaction in the public and private markets for the parent companys and the operating partnerships securities, increase difficulty in accessing optimally priced financing and damage public perception of the companys business. Also, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. Also, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit 83 Table of Contents facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, increases in the cost of credit and difficulty in accessing the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact the operating partnerships business and financial condition such as occupancy levels of its properties. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The facility can be increased to up to $800.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 84 Table of Contents 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 35.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $600.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, there was no outstanding balance on this credit facility, and the remaining amount available was $589.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $10.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. The rate on the borrowings is generally Yen LIBOR plus a margin, which was 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 35.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, was $139.5 million, and the remaining amount available was $415.0 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2010, was approximately $129.4 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%, and the remaining amount available was $370.6 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2010. 85 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Unsecured Total Consolidated Total Unconsolidated AMBs Share of Senior Credit Other Secured Wholly Owned Joint Consolidated Joint Total Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Debt 2011 $ 69,000 $ 129,443 $ $ 15,499 $ 213,942 $ 139,410 $ 353,352 $ 414,907 $ 768,259 $ 395,844 2012 153,903 29,636 183,539 468,361 651,900 434,468 1,086,368 478,649 2013 293,897 23,366 317,263 103,568 420,831 732,130 1,152,961 547,092 2014 139,490 4,904 144,394 8,809 153,203 556,096 709,299 357,254 2015 112,491 205,773 7,908 326,172 16,943 343,115 464,706 807,821 504,984 2016 250,000 81,936 331,936 15,499 347,435 170,709 518,144 397,384 2017 300,000 67,913 367,913 490 368,403 92,414 460,817 388,927 2018 300,000 300,000 595 300,595 96,694 397,289 334,094 2019 250,000 250,000 28,713 278,713 11,778 290,491 270,707 2020 123,213 123,213 645 123,858 211,643 335,501 197,459 Thereafter 2,450 2,450 377,455 379,905 133,164 Subtotal $ 1,698,601 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,162 $ 2,558,372 $ 785,483 $ 3,343,855 $ 3,563,000 $ 6,906,855 $ 4,005,558 Unamortized net (discounts) premiums (12,645 ) 43 (12,602 ) 46 (12,556 ) (4,580 ) (17,136 ) (15,995 ) Subtotal $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 785,529 $ 3,331,299 $ 3,558,420 $ 6,889,719 $ 3,989,563 Joint venture partners share of debt (451,335 ) (451,335 ) (2,448,821 ) (2,900,156 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 334,194 $ 2,879,964 $ 1,109,599 $ 3,989,563 $ 3,989,563 Weighted average interest rate 5.6 % 1.7 % 3.0 % 2.9 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.9 3.6 4.9 5.2 1.9 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.7 billion. Includes $37.0 million in U.S. dollar borrowings and $139.5 million, $70.1 million, and $22.3 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2010, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 86 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2011 through 2014, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 $ Credit Facilities 129,443 Other Debt 153,903 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 14,300 28,068 22,090 Subtotal 83,300 311,414 315,987 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 39,273 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 3,850 199,972 4,590 AMB SGP, L.P. 38,176 289,125 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 53,311 30,972 20,355 4,344 Subtotal 91,487 323,947 259,600 8,934 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB SGP Mexico 58,825 163,769 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 151,511 212,617 493,566 AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 412,234 AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 30,310 29,397 181,457 117,995 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 31,081 57,299 30,861 Subtotal 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total Consolidated 174,787 635,361 575,587 8,934 Total Unconsolidated 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total $ 446,514 $ 1,041,144 $ 1,307,909 $ 570,024 Total Operating Partnerships Share(3) $ 201,771 $ 563,687 $ 580,546 $ 215,449 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2014, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2011 through 2014 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Market Capital as of December 31, 2010 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 168,506,670 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,343,347 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,548,413 $ 5,439,801 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. 87 Table of Contents (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.0% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total assets was $9.3 billion. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. 88 Table of Contents Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $30.0 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $224 million while increasing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $409 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $1.4 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 17%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2010, approximately $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units(1) $ $ 2.69 $ 3.59 (1) On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by 89 Table of Contents operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Distributions paid to partners (195,755 ) (139,515 ) (224,549 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (11,047 ) (18,771 ) (61,934 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Development starts, generally defined as projects where the operating partnership has obtained building permits and has begun physical construction, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 on an owned and managed basis were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Number of new development projects 4 Square feet 860,497 Estimated total investment(1) $ 68,146 $ Asia: Number of new development projects 3 Square feet 755,752 Estimated total investment(1) $ 34,718 $ Total: Number of new development projects 7 Square feet 1,616,249 Estimated total investment(1) $ 102,864 $ Total construction in progress estimated investment(1)(2) $ 170,751 $ Total construction in progress invested to date(3) $ 107,274 $ Total construction in progress remaining to invest(3)(4) $ 63,477 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, and associated carry costs. Estimated total investments are based on current 90 Table of Contents forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. (2) Excludes the impact of real estate impairment losses and includes value added conversions. (3) Amounts include capitalized interest and overhead costs, as applicable. (4) Calculated using estimated total investment before the impact of real estate impairment losses. Development Portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had eight construction in progress development projects, on an owned and managed basis, which are expected to total approximately 2.2 million square feet and have an aggregate estimated investment of $169.8 million upon completion, net of $1.0 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date. Four of these projects totaling approximately 1.2 million square feet with an aggregate estimated investment of $124.2 million were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture. Construction in progress, at December 31, 2010, included projects expected to be completed through the third quarter of 2012. On an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership had an additional 25 development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 6.8 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $700.0 million, net of $67.6 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date, and an aggregate net book value of $680.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership and its development joint venture partners have funded an aggregate of $855.5 million, or 91%, of the total estimated investment before the impact of real estate investment losses and will need to fund an estimated additional $82.9 million, or 9%, in order to complete its development portfolio. In addition to its committed development pipeline, the operating partnership held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale, on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which was located in the Americas. This included 254 acres that were held in unconsolidated joint ventures. The operating partnership currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 79 years. These buildings and improvements subject to ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2011 $ 36,278 2012 33,412 2013 30,387 2014 28,724 2015 27,357 Thereafter 414,203 Total $ 570,361 Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures of $732.7 million and a gross book value of approximately $7.1 billion. In the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership made a $200.0 million investment in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and a $100.0 million investment in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. Additionally, third party investors contributed $257.0 million to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in AMB 91 Table of Contents Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS during the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $286.4 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This could increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. In addition, on August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. As of December 31, 2010, no investments had been made in real estate properties within this co investment venture. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; 92 Table of Contents claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Acres 213 4 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,635,800 Investment(1) $ 47,509 $ 1,539 Europe: Acres 11 2 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 377,479 67,805 Investment(1) $ 37,384 $ 5,656 Asia: Acres 38 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 Investment(1) $ $ 17,032 Total: Acres 224 44 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 4,013,279 1,143,624 Investment(1) $ 84,893 $ 24,227 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. 93 Table of Contents Acquisition activity, including value added acquisitions, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Number of properties acquired by AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 9 Square feet 2,231,719 Expected investment(1) $ 174,783 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 5 Square feet 1,458,691 Expected investment(1) $ 131,640 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 2 Square feet 1,143,355 Expected investment(1) $ 36,886 $ Total number of properties acquired 16 Total square feet 4,833,765 Total acquisition cost $ 334,754 $ Total acquisition capital 8,555 Total expected investment(1) $ 343,309 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 353,352 $ 1,072,731 $ 496,318 $ 1,421,454 $ 3,343,855 Debt interest payments 13,630 53,374 15,698 71,778 154,480 Operating lease commitments 36,278 63,799 56,081 414,203 570,361 Tax liabilities(1) 6,290 6,290 Co investment venture capital commitments(2) 90,896 89,192 61,732 44,565 286,385 Total $ 494,156 $ 1,285,386 $ 629,829 $ 1,952,000 $ 4,361,371 (1) These amounts represent an estimate of our income tax liabilities, including an estimate of the period of settlement. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the companys tax obligations. (2) Commitments due in less than one year includes $24.6 million committed to secure a line of credit for AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, which the parent company does not expect to be called. 94 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2010, the company had provided approximately $12.9 million in letters of credit, of which $10.4 million were provided under the operating partnerships $600.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part I, Item 1, Notes 5, 6 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $403.0 million as described below. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2010, the company also guaranteed $58.6 million and $83.5 million on outstanding loans on five of its consolidated joint ventures and three of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2010. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $3.8 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations, as adjusted (FFO, as adjusted) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit, as adjusted (FFOPS, as adjusted) The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, as adjusted (or FFO, as adjusted), FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or FFOPS, as adjusted), Core FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or Core FFOPS, as adjusted) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS, as adjusted, as FFO, as adjusted, per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO, as adjusted, as net income (or loss) available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO, as adjusted of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company defines Core FFOPS, as adjusted as Core FFO, as adjusted per fully diluted weighted share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates Core FFO, as adjusted as FFO, as adjusted excluding 95 Table of Contents the companys share of development profits. These calculations also include adjustments for items as described below. Unless stated otherwise, the company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO, as adjusted. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO, as adjusted, to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, as adjusted, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in funds from operations. However, the companys interpretation of FFO, as adjusted, or FFOPS, as adjusted, may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to funds from operations or funds from operations per share and unit reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO, as adjusted, gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO, as adjusted, will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO, as adjusted. In addition, the company calculates FFO, as adjusted, to exclude impairment and restructuring charges, debt extinguishment losses and the Series D preferred unit redemption discount. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted values. The restructuring charges reflected costs associated with the companys reduction in global headcount and cost structure. Debt extinguishment losses generally included the costs of repurchasing debt securities. The company repurchased certain tranches of senior unsecured debt to manage its debt maturities in response to the current financing environment, resulting in greater debt extinguishment costs. The Series D preferred unit redemption discount reflects the gain associated with the discount to liquidation preference in the Series D preferred unit redemption price less costs incurred as a result of the redemption. In 2008, the company also recognized charges to write off pursuit costs related to development projects it no longer planned to commence and to establish a reserve against tax assets associated with the reduction of its development activities. Although difficult to predict, these items may be recurring given the uncertainty of the current economic climate and its adverse effects on the real estate and financial markets. While not infrequent or unusual in nature, these items result from market fluctuations that can have inconsistent effects on the companys results of operations. The economics underlying these items reflect market and financing conditions in the short term but can obscure the companys performance and the value of the companys long term investment decisions and strategies. Management believes FFO, as adjusted, is significant and useful to both it and its investors. FFO, as adjusted, more appropriately reflects the value and strength of the companys business model and its potential performance isolated from the volatility of the current economic environment and unobscured by costs (or gains) resulting from the companys management of its financing profile in response to the tightening of the capital markets. However, in addition to the limitations of FFO Measures, as adjusted, generally discussed below, FFO, as adjusted, does not present a comprehensive measure of the companys financial condition and operating performance. This measure is a modification of the NAREIT definition of funds from operations and should not be used as an alternative to net income or cash as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the FFO Measures, as adjusted, are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, 96 Table of Contents are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While funds from operations and funds from operations per share are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. The FFO Measures, as adjusted, also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are the FFO Measures, as adjusted, necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, and a reconciliation of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to net income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 97 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO, as adjusted, reconciled from net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ 10,122 $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership (155 ) 789 782 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders of the parent company 9,967 (50,077 ) (66,451 ) Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (20,248 ) (38,718 ) (22,561 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Discontinued operations depreciation 3,447 6,602 8,199 Non real estate depreciation (8,432 ) (8,593 ) (7,270 ) Adjustment for depreciation on development profits (1,546 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net loss) 6,278 11,063 32,855 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net loss (income)) 88 (3,625 ) (5,063 ) Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) 133 2,377 2,822 FFO, as adjusted, attributable to noncontrolling interests (28,251 ) (31,571 ) (50,381 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net (income) loss (17,372 ) (11,331 ) (17,121 ) The companys share of FFO, as adjusted 61,903 47,549 44,589 Adjustments for impairments, restructuring charges and debt extinguishment: Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 Discontinued operations real estate impairment losses 9,794 11,052 Pursuit costs and tax reserve 11,834 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,892 12,267 786 Preferred unit redemption discount (9,759 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) (182 ) (898 ) (1,186 ) Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Basic FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.10 $ 2.95 Diluted FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.09 $ 2.90 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Development profits, net of taxes (6,739 ) (88,876 ) (81,084 ) Joint venture partners and limited partnership unitholders share of development profits, net of taxes 61 3,308 9,041 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) (133 ) (2,377 ) (2,822 ) AMBs share of development profits from unconsolidated joint ventures (9 ) (271 ) (2,071 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) 49 585 645 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted(1) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 Basic Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.23 $ 1.46 $ 2.19 Diluted Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.22 $ 1.46 $ 2.16 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO, as adjusted, distributed through declared dividends and 98 Table of Contents allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 1,202,122, 918,753 and 855,919 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines NOI as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of gains (losses), costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers SS NOI to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines Cash basis SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and development stabilized after December 31, 2008. The company considers SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI helps investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI. 99 Table of Contents The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) $ 33,594 $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) Private capital revenues (30,860 ) (38,013 ) (68,472 ) Depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 General and administrative and fund costs 125,155 116,404 145,040 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 108,773 89,170 20,509 Total discontinued operations (24,242 ) (96,222 ) (11,169 ) Net operating income 413,930 397,140 435,330 Less non same store NOI (73,535 ) (47,582 ) (26,626 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (9,045 ) (2,803 ) (5,457 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 331,350 $ 346,755 $ 403,247 Less lease termination fees (3,059 ) (2,692 ) (5,518 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 328,291 $ 344,063 $ 397,729 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $12.6 million as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 143,598 $ 544,574 $ 365,635 $ 13,713 $ 137,342 $ 1,393,341 $ 2,598,203 $ 2,672,107 Average interest rate 6.5 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.3 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 209,754 $ 107,326 $ 55,196 $ 139,490 $ 205,773 $ 28,113 $ 745,652 $ 742,076 Average interest rate 2.1 % 1.8 % 2.9 % 1.7 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 2.2 % n/a Interest payments(3) $ 13,630 $ 29,611 $ 23,763 $ 3,037 $ 12,661 $ 71,778 $ 154,480 n/a (1) Represents 77.7% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (2) Represents 22.3% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (3) Represents interest expense related only to the debt balances maturing in each respective year, based upon interest rates at the balance sheet date. 100 Table of Contents If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $1.6 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2010, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) both were $3.2 billion, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, variable rate debt comprised 22.3% and 38.8%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income for any ineffectiveness. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2010 were 24 interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands): Cash Flow Hedges EUR Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 11 1.2600 % $ 7,698 $ (8 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1575 % $ 112,240 $ (189 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1710 % $ 65,473 $ (119 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1550 % $ 28,060 $ (47 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 12 1.7300 % $ 10,910 $ (81 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4875 % $ 112,240 $ (129 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.5010 % $ 65,473 $ (85 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4850 % $ 28,060 $ (32 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 13 2.2200 % $ 12,584 $ (133 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9975 % $ 112,240 $ 299 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 2.0110 % $ 65,473 $ 160 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9950 % $ 28,060 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5875 % $ 112,240 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.6010 % $ 65,473 $ 26 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5850 % $ 28,060 $ 16 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0025 % $ 112,240 $ 112 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0160 % $ 65,473 $ 51 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0000 % $ 28,060 $ 25 $ 1,060,057 $ 12 101 Table of Contents Cash Flow Hedges JPY Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. JPY TIBOR October 12 0.6000 % $ 153,903 $ (420 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 25,998 $ (54 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 16,018 $ (34 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 25,320 $ (244 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 16,018 $ (155 ) $ 237,257 $ (907 ) Cash Flow Hedges USD Caps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Cap 1 mo. USD LIBOR October 12 4.2500 % $ 25,909 $ 8 $ 25,909 $ 8 Non Designated Hedges FX Forward Pay Fixed Buy Notional Amount Derivative Type Forward Rate Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value FX Forward 1.335675 March 11 EUR 124,143 $ 165,815 $ 108 FX Forward 1.551 March 11 GBP 17,000 $ 26,367 $ (85 ) FX Forward 1.00065 March 11 CAD 165,000 $ 164,893 $ (627 ) FX Forward 1.00075 March 11 CAD 78,000 $ 77,942 $ (304 ) $ 435,017 $ (908 ) Non Designated Hedges IR Swap Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR June 11 4.4500 % $ 25,168 $ 713 $ 25,168 $ 713 Total USD Equivalent Amount $ 1,783,408 $ (1,082 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The gains (losses) resulting from the translation are 102 Table of Contents included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $36.7 million and $(22.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total unrealized and realized gains (losses) from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $1.4 million, $(7.2) million and $(5.7) million, respectively. 
 
Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 56 Table of Contents SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA (1) (AMB Property, L.P.) The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for the operating partnership on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31: See footnote 2 below for discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data. 2010 2009 2008(2) 2007 2006(2) (dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts) Operating Data Total revenues $ 633,500 $ 618,424 $ 677,659 $ 635,901 $ 679,400 Income (loss) from continuing operations(3) 9,352 (124,182 ) (17,919 ) 281,519 210,425 Income from discontinued operations 24,242 96,222 11,169 90,197 78,388 Net income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 288,813 Net income (loss) 33,594 (27,960 ) (6,750 ) 371,716 289,006 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders 10,122 (50,866 ) (67,233 ) 305,241 217,419 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic (0.08 ) (1.02 ) (0.75 ) 2.13 1.53 Diluted (0.08 ) (1.02 ) (0.75 ) 2.08 1.48 Income from discontinued operations available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic 0.14 0.65 0.09 0.88 0.83 Diluted 0.14 0.65 0.09 0.86 0.80 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders per common unit: Basic 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 3.01 2.36 Diluted 0.06 (0.37 ) (0.66 ) 2.94 2.28 Distributions declared per common unit 1.12 1.12 1.56 2.00 1.84 Weighted average common unit outstanding basic 164,290,475 136,484,612 101,253,972 101,550,001 92,047,678 Weighted average common units outstanding diluted 164,290,475 136,484,612 101,253,972 103,961,648 95,297,815 Other Data Funds from operations (FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 $ 367,653 $ 303,279 FFO, as adjusted per common unit:(4) Basic 1.27 2.10 2.95 3.62 3.29 Diluted 1.27 2.09 2.90 3.54 3.19 Core Funds from operations (Core FFO), as adjusted(4) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 $ 201,115 $ 198,253 Core FFO, as adjusted per common unit:(4) Basic 1.23 1.46 2.19 1.98 2.15 Diluted 1.22 1.46 2.16 1.93 2.08 Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities 252,760 243,113 302,614 240,543 335,855 Investing activities (586,628 ) 84,097 (881,768 ) (632,240 ) (880,560 ) Financing activities 329,734 (298,354 ) 580,171 420,025 483,621 Balance Sheet Data Investments in real estate at cost $ 6,906,176 $ 6,708,660 $ 6,603,856 $ 6,709,545 $ 6,575,733 Total assets 7,372,895 6,841,958 7,301,648 7,262,403 6,713,512 Total consolidated debt 3,331,299 3,212,596 3,990,185 3,494,844 3,437,415 Operating partnerships share of total debt(5) 3,989,563 3,580,353 4,293,510 3,272,513 3,088,624 Preferred units 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,412 223,417 Partners capital (excluding preferred units) 3,135,084 2,755,165 2,342,526 2,610,574 2,095,835 (1) All amounts in the consolidated financial statements for prior years have been retrospectively updated for new accounting guidance related to accounting for noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and per unit calculations. 57 Table of Contents (2) Effective October 1, 2006, the company deconsolidated AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. on a prospective basis, due to the re evaluation of the accounting for the companys investment in the fund because of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partners rights effective October 1, 2006. On July 1, 2008, the partners of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) contributed their interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in exchange for interests in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture. As a result, the financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, included in the operating partnerships operating data, other data and balance sheet data above are not comparable. (3) Loss from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes real estate impairment losses of $172.1 million and $182.9 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, income (loss) from continuing operations included restructuring charges of $4.9 million, $6.4 million and $12.3 million, respectively. (4) See Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental Earnings Measures, for a reconciliation to net income and a discussion of why the company believes FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted are useful supplemental measures of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFO, as adjusted or Core FFO, as adjusted when assessing the parent companys financial performance, and the limitations of FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO, as adjusted as measurement tools. (5) Operating partnerships share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The company believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the operating partnerships leverage and to compare the operating partnerships leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 58 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Overview The global economic recovery gained momentum in 2010, which made it possible for the company to successfully execute on its key growth initiatives for the year. In recognition of the improving capital markets and operating fundamentals around the world, management believes that the company has a leading position and competitive advantage in pursuing growth opportunities. As such, the companys three priorities for 2011 are to: increase the utilization of its assets; scale the organization and become more profitable; and form new co investment ventures and funds. Management believes the pace of the global economic recovery is strengthening and expects to see earnings growth if the company is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the lease up of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. Management believes the U.S. is in the early stages of the inventory rebuilding process and that the slower than normal rebuild does not signify a secular change in global supply chain practices, but rather inventories were drawn down to unsustainable levels due to stronger than anticipated holiday retail sales. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is currently evaluating multiple opportunities in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. Additionally, management believes its existing and new private capital co investment ventures and joint ventures are well positioned to benefit from the expected shift in customer demand for high quality, well located industrial real estate. Strength of Balance Sheet and Liquidity The company completed more than $1.9 billion of financings during the fourth quarter. This activity included $1.5 billion of wholly owned debt consisting of the renewal of its two lines of credit, a corporate term loan, a new bond issuance, and $391 million for its co investment ventures in Europe, Japan and the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed financings of approximately $4.0 billion. These transactions further improved and extended the weighted average remaining life of the companys share of debt to 4.8 years from 3.8 years at an average interest rate of 4.6 percent. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of total debt to share of total assets was 43 percent, which includes its share of joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of liquidity was approximately $1.6 billion, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of availability on its lines of credit and more than $260 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. Real Estate Operations Fundamentals in the U.S. industrial real estate market further improved in the fourth quarter. According to CBRE Econometric Advisors, the availability rate declined 30 basis points to 14.3% and net absorption was positive 33.2 million square feet. This is the largest improvement in net absorption in three years as well as more than four times the level reached in the third quarter. The recovery was more broad based in the fourth quarter with approximately three quarters of the markets in the U.S. reflecting positive net absorption, which represents a 25 point increase from the third quarter. Availabilities in the coastal markets declined 30 basis points to 12.0% after peaking at 12.5% in the first quarter 2010. The company continues to believe that record low construction, when met by stronger demand, will drive the availability rate back down and that there will be a substantial improvement in net absorption in 2011. Cash basis same store net operating income (SS NOI), without the effects of lease termination fees, increased 0.9 percent during the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009, driven by increases in occupancy. This increase in quarterly SS NOI marked the first positive year over year performance since the fourth quarter of 2008. SS NOI for the full year 2010 decreased 3.2 percent. 59 Table of Contents Rent changes on rollovers declined 11.9% on a trailing four quarter basis and decreased 11.6% for the quarter. Rent changes on rollover were negative for 2010, although management believes net effective rents have bottomed in most of the companys markets today. Capital Deployment The company commenced new development in the fourth quarter totaling approximately 695,800 square feet (64,640 square meters) and approximately 1.6 million square feet (150,150 square meters) during 2010 in Brazil, China and Mexico, with an estimated total investment of $102.9 million. During the quarter, acquisitions totaled $144.2 million, including $54.5 million for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $89.7 million for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. The company also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, the company held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Private Capital Business During 2010, the company raised a record $781.4 million in third party private equity. As of December 31, 2010, the company had assets under management in nine significant co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $8.2 billion. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million using the same exchange rate, at full deployment. During 2010, in addition to the commitments of third party equity in AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. and AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, the companys two open ended funds received capital commitments comprising $257.0 million in third party equity in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in third party equity in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. As of July 13, 2010, the members of AMB SGP Mexico, LLC agreed to an early termination of the investment period of, and acquisition exclusivity in favor of, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. Equity holders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, there was no redemption queue for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 60 Table of Contents Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed the following significant transactions: Issued approximately 18.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $27.50 per share, generating approximately $479 million in net proceeds; Issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.50% due 2017; Issued $175.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.00% due 2018; Acquired 16 properties aggregating approximately 4.8 million square feet for an aggregate price of $343.3 million, including approximately 1.1 million square feet for $36.9 million for the company, as well as 2.2 million square feet for $174.8 million and 1.5 million square feet for $131.6 million, respectively, for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, which are unconsolidated co investment ventures; Acquired a 50% equity interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million; Acquired three land parcels totaling 192 acres in Brazil for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $39.9 million, the companys first acquisitions with the companys joint venture partner, CCP, and commenced development of 0.6 million square feet of properties; Formed AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and contributed the companys equity investment in the companys joint venture with CCP into AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P.; Formed AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico, with third party institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans; Contributed two completed development projects aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units with a fair value of $22.4 million; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet to third parties, including 0.2 million square feet that was part of an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $36.4 million, of which $12.5 million related to the installment sale; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 1.7 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $94.5 million; Invested $200 million in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $100 million in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS; and Raised $781.4 in third party equity commitments to the companys unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part I, Item 1, Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and 61 Table of Contents on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical 62 Table of Contents operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. These amendments require an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Additionally, they require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary and provide a framework for the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, and the company has adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. The company has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this guidance, and it did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States on the net income it distributes currently to its shareholders if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities 63 Table of Contents may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2008 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2010, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 68.5 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Acquired:(1) Number of properties 2 10 Square feet (in thousands) 1,143 2,831 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ 36,886 $ $ 217,044 Development Properties Sold or Contributed:(2) Square feet (in thousands)(3) 665 3,387 5,274 (1) Includes value added acquisitions. (2) Excludes value added acquisitions. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2010, the square footage includes 0.2 million square feet related to an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 64 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 483.0 $ 497.4 $ (14.4 ) (2.9 )% Development 31.2 22.5 8.7 38.7 % Other industrial 88.4 60.5 27.9 46.1 % Total rental revenues 602.6 580.4 22.2 3.8 % Private capital revenues 30.9 38.0 (7.1 ) (18.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.5 $ 618.4 $ 15.1 2.4 % Same store rental revenues decreased $14.4 million from the prior year due primarily to decreased average occupancy and rental rates and increased free rent, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $8.7 million is primarily due to increased occupancy of the companys development portfolio as the company continues lease up of the development pool, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $27.9 million primarily reflects the further lease up of the companys development portfolio and higher occupancy, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010, partially offset by increased free rent. The decrease in private capital revenues of $7.1 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and asset management fees recognized in 2010 as compared to fees recognized in the prior year for incentive distributions received from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., partially offset by an increase in acquisition fees recognized in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 110.7 $ 107.2 $ 3.5 3.3 % Real estate taxes 78.0 76.0 2.0 2.6 % Total property operating costs $ 188.7 $ 183.2 $ 5.5 3.0 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 148.0 $ 151.2 $ (3.2 ) (2.1 )% Development 16.9 10.3 6.6 64.1 % Other industrial 23.8 21.7 2.1 9.7 % Total property operating costs 188.7 183.2 5.5 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization 196.6 175.3 21.3 12.2 % General and administrative 124.4 115.3 9.1 7.9 % Restructuring charges 4.9 6.4 (1.5 ) (23.4 )% Fund costs 0.8 1.1 (0.3 ) (27.3 )% Real estate impairment losses 172.1 (172.1 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 3.2 8.7 (5.5 ) (63.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 518.6 $ 662.1 $ (143.5 ) (21.7 )% The decrease in same store operating expenses of $3.2 million from the prior year was primarily due to decreased average occupancy along with a decrease in repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and real estate taxes, partially offset by an increase in ground rent expense. The 65 Table of Contents increase in development operating costs of $6.6 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes and other operating expenses due to continued lease up and higher occupancy of the development portfolio. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $2.1 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and ground rent expenses during 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $21.3 million is primarily due to increased asset stabilizations and assets moving out of the held for sale or contribution pools in the early part of 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $9.1 million is primarily due to an increase in professional service expenses, an increase in stock compensation amortization related to additional issuances of stock options and restricted stock in 2010 and a reduction in capitalized development costs, partially offset by decreases in tax expense, office expenses and insurance expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recorded $4.9 million in restructuring charges associated with severance and the termination of certain contractual obligations, as compared to $6.4 million recorded in 2009, due to the further implementation of a previously initiated cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The company did not record any real estate impairment losses in 2010. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009. Other expenses decreased $5.5 million primarily as a result of a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan as well as a decrease in dead deal costs from prior year, partially offset by an increase of acquisition costs in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 6.7 $ 35.9 $ (29.2 ) (81.3 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.4 11.3 6.1 54.0 % Other income 3.5 3.5 % Interest expense, including amortization (130.3 ) (118.9 ) 11.4 9.6 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (2.9 ) (12.3 ) (9.4 ) (76.4 )% Total other income and (expenses), net $ (105.6 ) $ (80.5 ) $ (25.1 ) (31.2 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.9 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million. This includes the installment sale of approximately 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million with development profits of $3.9 million recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development losses of approximately $0.2 million, as a result of the contribution of two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet, to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units in the fund. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $6.1 million in 2010 was primarily due to impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management during 2009. Interest expense increased $11.4 million over the same period in 2009 primarily due to an additional bond issuance in the fourth quarter of 2009, along with higher line utilization in 2010. Loss on early extinguishment of debt decreased by 66 Table of Contents $9.4 million primarily due to the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.0 $ 4.5 $ (0.5 ) (11.1 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 (53.0 ) (100.0 )% Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 20.2 38.7 (18.5 ) (47.8 )% Total discontinued operations $ 24.2 $ 96.2 $ (72.0 ) (74.8 )% During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company did not sell any value added conversion development projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 (9.8 ) (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (6.0 ) $ (9.8 ) 163.3 % No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2010. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 497.4 $ 560.8 $ (63.4 ) (11.3 )% Development 22.5 11.7 10.8 92.3 % Other industrial 60.5 36.7 23.8 64.9 % Total rental revenues 580.4 609.2 (28.8 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 38.0 68.5 (30.5 ) (44.5 )% Total revenues $ 618.4 $ 677.7 $ (59.3 ) (8.8 )% 67 Table of Contents Same store rental revenues decreased $63.4 million in 2009 from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended 2008 would have been $522.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $25.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $10.8 million is primarily due to further lease up of the development pool and increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $23.8 million primarily reflects further lease up of the development pool and an increase in the number of projects that reached these levels of operation in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions from AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. For the Years Ended Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 107.2 $ 98.0 $ 9.2 9.4 % Real estate taxes 76.0 75.9 0.1 0.1 % Total property operating costs $ 183.2 $ 173.9 $ 9.3 5.3 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 151.2 $ 157.2 $ (6.0 ) (3.8 )% Development 10.3 2.1 8.2 390.5 % Other industrial 21.7 14.6 7.1 48.6 % Total property operating costs 183.2 173.9 9.3 5.3 % Depreciation and amortization 175.3 161.0 14.3 8.9 % General and administrative 115.3 143.9 (28.6 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 172.1 182.9 (10.8 ) (5.9 )% Other expenses 8.7 0.5 8.2 1,640.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 662.1 $ 675.6 $ (13.5 ) (2.0 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $147.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008. The increase of $3.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $8.2 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of 68 Table of Contents the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $7.1 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and administrative expenses due to an increase in the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $14.3 million was primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.6 million in 2009 was primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. The increase in other expenses of $8.2 million was primarily due to changes in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan in 2009 as compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs from amounts recognized in 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expense) 3.5 (3.1 ) 6.6 212.9 % Interest expense, including amortization (118.9 ) (134.3 ) (15.4 ) (11.5 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.5 ) $ (20.0 ) $ (60.5 ) (302.5 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres, for an aggregate sales price of $26.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, 69 Table of Contents a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income (expense) increased $6.6 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income due to lower cash balances and interest rates in 2009 and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $15.4 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates in 2009. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.5 $ 8.6 $ (4.1 ) (47.7 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 96.2 $ 11.2 $ 85.0 758.9 % The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to higher real estate impairment losses recognized in 2009 on properties sold through December 31, 2010 or held for sale as of December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. No value added conversion development projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which was disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 (62.0 )% On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. 70 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 1.8% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2010: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. 71 Table of Contents In September 2010, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock. The parent company has not repurchased any shares of its common stock under this program. Market Equity as of December 31, 2010 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 168,736,081 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,350,621 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,777,824 $ 5,447,075 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships 72 Table of Contents organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.0% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total assets was approximately $9.3 billion. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. 73 Table of Contents Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 74 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (193,428 ) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (13,374 ) (21,178 ) (66,007 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its other debt obligations related to the following two facilities. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. These term loans contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, 75 Table of Contents which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. This facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. As of December 31, 2010, this facility had a balance of $139.5 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to extend the maturity date to July 2012. As of December 31, 2010, this facility, maturing in July 2011, had a balance of $129.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; 76 Table of Contents net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; investments in existing or newly formed joint ventures; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, cash provided by operating activities was $252.8 million as compared to $243.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash used in investing activities was $586.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $84.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and an increase in additions to interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, partially offset by a decrease in additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs. Cash provided by financing activities was $329.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $298.4 million for the same period in 2009. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net payments on unsecured credit facilities and an increase in net proceeds from issuance of senior debt, net of payments. This activity was partially offset by a decrease in the issuance of common units, an increase in distributions paid and an increase in net payments on other debt. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding 168,506,670 common general partnership units; 2,058,730 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions 77 Table of Contents on a consolidated basis, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 Square feet 3,685,677 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 264,697 Sold: Number of projects 3 Square feet 774,663 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 62,695 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 13 24 Square feet 4,504,551 6,669,855 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 567,634 Total: Number of projects 13 38 Square feet 4,504,551 11,130,195 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 895,026 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010(1) 2009 2008 Square feet 485,022 1,977,185 73,927 Gross sales price $ 36,372 $ 293,846 $ 26,116 Net proceeds $ 35,089 $ 254,888 $ 23,557 Development profits, net of taxes $ 6,910 $ 59,068 $ 7,235 (1) Includes the installment sale of 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million gross sales price ($12.0 million net proceeds) with development gains of $3.9 million recognized in the year ended December 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 78 Table of Contents Development contributions to co investment ventures during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Number of projects contributed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 2 4 Square Feet 428,180 2,723,003 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 Square Feet 1,421,043 Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 2 2 Square Feet 179,693 164,574 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 Square Feet 981,162 891,596 Total number of contributed development assets 2 3 11 Total square feet 179,693 1,409,342 5,200,216 Gross contribution price $ 22,391 $ 217,293 $ 508,748 Net proceeds $ 22,391 $ 56,822 $ 394,025 Development (losses) profits, net of taxes $ (171 ) $ 29,808 $ 73,849 Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by third party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for sale ten properties with an aggregate net book value of $55.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures eight properties with an aggregate net book value of $186.2 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 90% to an expected range of less than 40%. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million. As of December 31, 2010, no properties were reclassified from held for sale or held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership recognized $1.2 million of additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million as a result of similar reclassifications, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. 79 Table of Contents Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership owned approximately 80.8 million square feet of its properties (50.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. Estimated investment capacity in AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, including the total equity contributions of $315.3 million, is $600 million. 80 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 24 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Operating Estimated Ownership Partnerships Net Investment Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Equity Investment Capacity(1) AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(2) AMB U.S. Logistics REIT, Inc. 35 % $ 409,377 $ 190,000 (3) AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS Institutional investors 38 % $ 172,903 $ 300,000 (3) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 82,482 $ AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 20,646 $ AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 14,426 $ (4) AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. Major university endowment 25 % $ 32,910 $ 390,000 (1) AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico has additional investment capacity of $600 million as of December 31, 2010. (2) Effective January 1, 2010, the name of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. was changed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. Effective October 29, 2010, the name of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS was changed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. (3) The investment capacity of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, as open ended funds, is not limited. Investment capacity is estimated based on the cash of the fund and additional leverage and may change. (4) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and, as of December 31, 2010, the remaining estimated investment is $6.6 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. In addition to the equity investments shown above, the operating partnership, through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the company entered into a mortgage debt investment joint venture with a third party partner and held an equity interest of $86.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize 81 Table of Contents its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market capital, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.0 billion, excluding $0.1 million of unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.0 billion of secured debt, $731.2 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2010, bore interest at rates varying from 1.0% to 8.3% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.3%) and had final maturity dates ranging from July 2011 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2010, $695.7 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1%), while the remaining $266.6 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.3%). As of December 31, 2010, $586.8 million of the secured debt before unamortized premiums was held by co investment ventures, including the AMB SGP, L.P. loan agreement discussed below. On February 14, 2007, seven subsidiaries of AMB SGP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which is a subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into a loan agreement for a $305.0 million secured financing. On the same day, pursuant to the loan agreement, the same seven subsidiaries delivered four promissory notes to the two lenders, each of which mature in March 2012. One note has a principal of $160.0 million and an interest rate that is fixed at 5.29%. The second note has an initial principal borrowing of $40.0 million with a variable interest rate of 81.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The third note has an initial principal borrowing of $84.0 million and a fixed interest rate of 5.90%. The fourth note has an initial principal borrowing of $21.0 million and bears interest at a variable rate of 135.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The aggregate principal amount outstanding under this loan agreement as of December 31, 2010 was $289.1 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In August 2010 and November 2010, the operating partnership issued senior unsecured notes of $300.0 million at 4.50% due 2017 and $175.0 million at 4.00% due 2018, respectively. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $414.0 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and had an average term of 3.3 years. Other debt includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $54.3 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2010. The remaining $359.7 million outstanding in other debt, using the exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010, is related to the term loans discussed below. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, 82 Table of Contents in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These unsecured credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2010. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. A downgrade in the operating partnerships credit ratings on its long term debt could adversely affect its business and financial condition. A decrease in the operating partnerships credit ratings could cause a negative reaction in the public and private markets for the parent companys and the operating partnerships securities, increase difficulty in accessing optimally priced financing and damage public perception of the companys business. Also, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. Also, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit 83 Table of Contents facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, increases in the cost of credit and difficulty in accessing the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact the operating partnerships business and financial condition such as occupancy levels of its properties. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The facility can be increased to up to $800.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 84 Table of Contents 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 35.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $600.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, there was no outstanding balance on this credit facility, and the remaining amount available was $589.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $10.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. The rate on the borrowings is generally Yen LIBOR plus a margin, which was 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 35.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, was $139.5 million, and the remaining amount available was $415.0 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2010, was approximately $129.4 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%, and the remaining amount available was $370.6 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2010. 85 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Unsecured Total Consolidated Total Unconsolidated AMBs Share of Senior Credit Other Secured Wholly Owned Joint Consolidated Joint Total Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Debt 2011 $ 69,000 $ 129,443 $ $ 15,499 $ 213,942 $ 139,410 $ 353,352 $ 414,907 $ 768,259 $ 395,844 2012 153,903 29,636 183,539 468,361 651,900 434,468 1,086,368 478,649 2013 293,897 23,366 317,263 103,568 420,831 732,130 1,152,961 547,092 2014 139,490 4,904 144,394 8,809 153,203 556,096 709,299 357,254 2015 112,491 205,773 7,908 326,172 16,943 343,115 464,706 807,821 504,984 2016 250,000 81,936 331,936 15,499 347,435 170,709 518,144 397,384 2017 300,000 67,913 367,913 490 368,403 92,414 460,817 388,927 2018 300,000 300,000 595 300,595 96,694 397,289 334,094 2019 250,000 250,000 28,713 278,713 11,778 290,491 270,707 2020 123,213 123,213 645 123,858 211,643 335,501 197,459 Thereafter 2,450 2,450 377,455 379,905 133,164 Subtotal $ 1,698,601 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,162 $ 2,558,372 $ 785,483 $ 3,343,855 $ 3,563,000 $ 6,906,855 $ 4,005,558 Unamortized net (discounts) premiums (12,645 ) 43 (12,602 ) 46 (12,556 ) (4,580 ) (17,136 ) (15,995 ) Subtotal $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 785,529 $ 3,331,299 $ 3,558,420 $ 6,889,719 $ 3,989,563 Joint venture partners share of debt (451,335 ) (451,335 ) (2,448,821 ) (2,900,156 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 334,194 $ 2,879,964 $ 1,109,599 $ 3,989,563 $ 3,989,563 Weighted average interest rate 5.6 % 1.7 % 3.0 % 2.9 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.9 3.6 4.9 5.2 1.9 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.7 billion. Includes $37.0 million in U.S. dollar borrowings and $139.5 million, $70.1 million, and $22.3 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2010, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 86 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2011 through 2014, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 $ Credit Facilities 129,443 Other Debt 153,903 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 14,300 28,068 22,090 Subtotal 83,300 311,414 315,987 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 39,273 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 3,850 199,972 4,590 AMB SGP, L.P. 38,176 289,125 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 53,311 30,972 20,355 4,344 Subtotal 91,487 323,947 259,600 8,934 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB SGP Mexico 58,825 163,769 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 151,511 212,617 493,566 AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 412,234 AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 30,310 29,397 181,457 117,995 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 31,081 57,299 30,861 Subtotal 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total Consolidated 174,787 635,361 575,587 8,934 Total Unconsolidated 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total $ 446,514 $ 1,041,144 $ 1,307,909 $ 570,024 Total Operating Partnerships Share(3) $ 201,771 $ 563,687 $ 580,546 $ 215,449 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2014, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2011 through 2014 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Market Capital as of December 31, 2010 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 168,506,670 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,343,347 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,548,413 $ 5,439,801 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. 87 Table of Contents (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.0% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total assets was $9.3 billion. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. 88 Table of Contents Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $30.0 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $224 million while increasing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $409 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $1.4 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 17%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2010, approximately $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units(1) $ $ 2.69 $ 3.59 (1) On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by 89 Table of Contents operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Distributions paid to partners (195,755 ) (139,515 ) (224,549 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (11,047 ) (18,771 ) (61,934 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Development starts, generally defined as projects where the operating partnership has obtained building permits and has begun physical construction, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 on an owned and managed basis were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Number of new development projects 4 Square feet 860,497 Estimated total investment(1) $ 68,146 $ Asia: Number of new development projects 3 Square feet 755,752 Estimated total investment(1) $ 34,718 $ Total: Number of new development projects 7 Square feet 1,616,249 Estimated total investment(1) $ 102,864 $ Total construction in progress estimated investment(1)(2) $ 170,751 $ Total construction in progress invested to date(3) $ 107,274 $ Total construction in progress remaining to invest(3)(4) $ 63,477 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, and associated carry costs. Estimated total investments are based on current 90 Table of Contents forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. (2) Excludes the impact of real estate impairment losses and includes value added conversions. (3) Amounts include capitalized interest and overhead costs, as applicable. (4) Calculated using estimated total investment before the impact of real estate impairment losses. Development Portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had eight construction in progress development projects, on an owned and managed basis, which are expected to total approximately 2.2 million square feet and have an aggregate estimated investment of $169.8 million upon completion, net of $1.0 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date. Four of these projects totaling approximately 1.2 million square feet with an aggregate estimated investment of $124.2 million were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture. Construction in progress, at December 31, 2010, included projects expected to be completed through the third quarter of 2012. On an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership had an additional 25 development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 6.8 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $700.0 million, net of $67.6 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date, and an aggregate net book value of $680.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership and its development joint venture partners have funded an aggregate of $855.5 million, or 91%, of the total estimated investment before the impact of real estate investment losses and will need to fund an estimated additional $82.9 million, or 9%, in order to complete its development portfolio. In addition to its committed development pipeline, the operating partnership held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale, on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which was located in the Americas. This included 254 acres that were held in unconsolidated joint ventures. The operating partnership currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 79 years. These buildings and improvements subject to ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2011 $ 36,278 2012 33,412 2013 30,387 2014 28,724 2015 27,357 Thereafter 414,203 Total $ 570,361 Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures of $732.7 million and a gross book value of approximately $7.1 billion. In the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership made a $200.0 million investment in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and a $100.0 million investment in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. Additionally, third party investors contributed $257.0 million to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in AMB 91 Table of Contents Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS during the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $286.4 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This could increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. In addition, on August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. As of December 31, 2010, no investments had been made in real estate properties within this co investment venture. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; 92 Table of Contents claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Acres 213 4 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,635,800 Investment(1) $ 47,509 $ 1,539 Europe: Acres 11 2 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 377,479 67,805 Investment(1) $ 37,384 $ 5,656 Asia: Acres 38 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 Investment(1) $ $ 17,032 Total: Acres 224 44 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 4,013,279 1,143,624 Investment(1) $ 84,893 $ 24,227 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. 93 Table of Contents Acquisition activity, including value added acquisitions, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Number of properties acquired by AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 9 Square feet 2,231,719 Expected investment(1) $ 174,783 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 5 Square feet 1,458,691 Expected investment(1) $ 131,640 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 2 Square feet 1,143,355 Expected investment(1) $ 36,886 $ Total number of properties acquired 16 Total square feet 4,833,765 Total acquisition cost $ 334,754 $ Total acquisition capital 8,555 Total expected investment(1) $ 343,309 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 353,352 $ 1,072,731 $ 496,318 $ 1,421,454 $ 3,343,855 Debt interest payments 13,630 53,374 15,698 71,778 154,480 Operating lease commitments 36,278 63,799 56,081 414,203 570,361 Tax liabilities(1) 6,290 6,290 Co investment venture capital commitments(2) 90,896 89,192 61,732 44,565 286,385 Total $ 494,156 $ 1,285,386 $ 629,829 $ 1,952,000 $ 4,361,371 (1) These amounts represent an estimate of our income tax liabilities, including an estimate of the period of settlement. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the companys tax obligations. (2) Commitments due in less than one year includes $24.6 million committed to secure a line of credit for AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, which the parent company does not expect to be called. 94 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2010, the company had provided approximately $12.9 million in letters of credit, of which $10.4 million were provided under the operating partnerships $600.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part I, Item 1, Notes 5, 6 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $403.0 million as described below. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2010, the company also guaranteed $58.6 million and $83.5 million on outstanding loans on five of its consolidated joint ventures and three of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2010. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $3.8 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations, as adjusted (FFO, as adjusted) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit, as adjusted (FFOPS, as adjusted) The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, as adjusted (or FFO, as adjusted), FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or FFOPS, as adjusted), Core FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or Core FFOPS, as adjusted) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS, as adjusted, as FFO, as adjusted, per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO, as adjusted, as net income (or loss) available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO, as adjusted of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company defines Core FFOPS, as adjusted as Core FFO, as adjusted per fully diluted weighted share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates Core FFO, as adjusted as FFO, as adjusted excluding 95 Table of Contents the companys share of development profits. These calculations also include adjustments for items as described below. Unless stated otherwise, the company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO, as adjusted. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO, as adjusted, to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, as adjusted, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in funds from operations. However, the companys interpretation of FFO, as adjusted, or FFOPS, as adjusted, may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to funds from operations or funds from operations per share and unit reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO, as adjusted, gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO, as adjusted, will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO, as adjusted. In addition, the company calculates FFO, as adjusted, to exclude impairment and restructuring charges, debt extinguishment losses and the Series D preferred unit redemption discount. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted values. The restructuring charges reflected costs associated with the companys reduction in global headcount and cost structure. Debt extinguishment losses generally included the costs of repurchasing debt securities. The company repurchased certain tranches of senior unsecured debt to manage its debt maturities in response to the current financing environment, resulting in greater debt extinguishment costs. The Series D preferred unit redemption discount reflects the gain associated with the discount to liquidation preference in the Series D preferred unit redemption price less costs incurred as a result of the redemption. In 2008, the company also recognized charges to write off pursuit costs related to development projects it no longer planned to commence and to establish a reserve against tax assets associated with the reduction of its development activities. Although difficult to predict, these items may be recurring given the uncertainty of the current economic climate and its adverse effects on the real estate and financial markets. While not infrequent or unusual in nature, these items result from market fluctuations that can have inconsistent effects on the companys results of operations. The economics underlying these items reflect market and financing conditions in the short term but can obscure the companys performance and the value of the companys long term investment decisions and strategies. Management believes FFO, as adjusted, is significant and useful to both it and its investors. FFO, as adjusted, more appropriately reflects the value and strength of the companys business model and its potential performance isolated from the volatility of the current economic environment and unobscured by costs (or gains) resulting from the companys management of its financing profile in response to the tightening of the capital markets. However, in addition to the limitations of FFO Measures, as adjusted, generally discussed below, FFO, as adjusted, does not present a comprehensive measure of the companys financial condition and operating performance. This measure is a modification of the NAREIT definition of funds from operations and should not be used as an alternative to net income or cash as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the FFO Measures, as adjusted, are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, 96 Table of Contents are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While funds from operations and funds from operations per share are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. The FFO Measures, as adjusted, also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are the FFO Measures, as adjusted, necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, and a reconciliation of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to net income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 97 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO, as adjusted, reconciled from net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ 10,122 $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership (155 ) 789 782 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders of the parent company 9,967 (50,077 ) (66,451 ) Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (20,248 ) (38,718 ) (22,561 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Discontinued operations depreciation 3,447 6,602 8,199 Non real estate depreciation (8,432 ) (8,593 ) (7,270 ) Adjustment for depreciation on development profits (1,546 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net loss) 6,278 11,063 32,855 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net loss (income)) 88 (3,625 ) (5,063 ) Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) 133 2,377 2,822 FFO, as adjusted, attributable to noncontrolling interests (28,251 ) (31,571 ) (50,381 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net (income) loss (17,372 ) (11,331 ) (17,121 ) The companys share of FFO, as adjusted 61,903 47,549 44,589 Adjustments for impairments, restructuring charges and debt extinguishment: Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 Discontinued operations real estate impairment losses 9,794 11,052 Pursuit costs and tax reserve 11,834 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,892 12,267 786 Preferred unit redemption discount (9,759 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) (182 ) (898 ) (1,186 ) Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Basic FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.10 $ 2.95 Diluted FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.09 $ 2.90 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Development profits, net of taxes (6,739 ) (88,876 ) (81,084 ) Joint venture partners and limited partnership unitholders share of development profits, net of taxes 61 3,308 9,041 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) (133 ) (2,377 ) (2,822 ) AMBs share of development profits from unconsolidated joint ventures (9 ) (271 ) (2,071 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) 49 585 645 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted(1) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 Basic Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.23 $ 1.46 $ 2.19 Diluted Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.22 $ 1.46 $ 2.16 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO, as adjusted, distributed through declared dividends and 98 Table of Contents allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 1,202,122, 918,753 and 855,919 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines NOI as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of gains (losses), costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers SS NOI to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines Cash basis SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and development stabilized after December 31, 2008. The company considers SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI helps investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI. 99 Table of Contents The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) $ 33,594 $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) Private capital revenues (30,860 ) (38,013 ) (68,472 ) Depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 General and administrative and fund costs 125,155 116,404 145,040 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 108,773 89,170 20,509 Total discontinued operations (24,242 ) (96,222 ) (11,169 ) Net operating income 413,930 397,140 435,330 Less non same store NOI (73,535 ) (47,582 ) (26,626 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (9,045 ) (2,803 ) (5,457 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 331,350 $ 346,755 $ 403,247 Less lease termination fees (3,059 ) (2,692 ) (5,518 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 328,291 $ 344,063 $ 397,729 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $12.6 million as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 143,598 $ 544,574 $ 365,635 $ 13,713 $ 137,342 $ 1,393,341 $ 2,598,203 $ 2,672,107 Average interest rate 6.5 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.3 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 209,754 $ 107,326 $ 55,196 $ 139,490 $ 205,773 $ 28,113 $ 745,652 $ 742,076 Average interest rate 2.1 % 1.8 % 2.9 % 1.7 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 2.2 % n/a Interest payments(3) $ 13,630 $ 29,611 $ 23,763 $ 3,037 $ 12,661 $ 71,778 $ 154,480 n/a (1) Represents 77.7% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (2) Represents 22.3% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (3) Represents interest expense related only to the debt balances maturing in each respective year, based upon interest rates at the balance sheet date. 100 Table of Contents If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $1.6 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2010, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) both were $3.2 billion, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, variable rate debt comprised 22.3% and 38.8%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income for any ineffectiveness. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2010 were 24 interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands): Cash Flow Hedges EUR Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 11 1.2600 % $ 7,698 $ (8 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1575 % $ 112,240 $ (189 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1710 % $ 65,473 $ (119 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1550 % $ 28,060 $ (47 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 12 1.7300 % $ 10,910 $ (81 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4875 % $ 112,240 $ (129 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.5010 % $ 65,473 $ (85 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4850 % $ 28,060 $ (32 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 13 2.2200 % $ 12,584 $ (133 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9975 % $ 112,240 $ 299 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 2.0110 % $ 65,473 $ 160 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9950 % $ 28,060 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5875 % $ 112,240 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.6010 % $ 65,473 $ 26 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5850 % $ 28,060 $ 16 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0025 % $ 112,240 $ 112 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0160 % $ 65,473 $ 51 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0000 % $ 28,060 $ 25 $ 1,060,057 $ 12 101 Table of Contents Cash Flow Hedges JPY Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. JPY TIBOR October 12 0.6000 % $ 153,903 $ (420 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 25,998 $ (54 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 16,018 $ (34 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 25,320 $ (244 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 16,018 $ (155 ) $ 237,257 $ (907 ) Cash Flow Hedges USD Caps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Cap 1 mo. USD LIBOR October 12 4.2500 % $ 25,909 $ 8 $ 25,909 $ 8 Non Designated Hedges FX Forward Pay Fixed Buy Notional Amount Derivative Type Forward Rate Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value FX Forward 1.335675 March 11 EUR 124,143 $ 165,815 $ 108 FX Forward 1.551 March 11 GBP 17,000 $ 26,367 $ (85 ) FX Forward 1.00065 March 11 CAD 165,000 $ 164,893 $ (627 ) FX Forward 1.00075 March 11 CAD 78,000 $ 77,942 $ (304 ) $ 435,017 $ (908 ) Non Designated Hedges IR Swap Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR June 11 4.4500 % $ 25,168 $ 713 $ 25,168 $ 713 Total USD Equivalent Amount $ 1,783,408 $ (1,082 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The gains (losses) resulting from the translation are 102 Table of Contents included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $36.7 million and $(22.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total unrealized and realized gains (losses) from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $1.4 million, $(7.2) million and $(5.7) million, respectively. 
 
Item 7: Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership 58 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Overview The global economic recovery gained momentum in 2010, which made it possible for the company to successfully execute on its key growth initiatives for the year. In recognition of the improving capital markets and operating fundamentals around the world, management believes that the company has a leading position and competitive advantage in pursuing growth opportunities. As such, the companys three priorities for 2011 are to: increase the utilization of its assets; scale the organization and become more profitable; and form new co investment ventures and funds. Management believes the pace of the global economic recovery is strengthening and expects to see earnings growth if the company is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the lease up of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. Management believes the U.S. is in the early stages of the inventory rebuilding process and that the slower than normal rebuild does not signify a secular change in global supply chain practices, but rather inventories were drawn down to unsustainable levels due to stronger than anticipated holiday retail sales. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is currently evaluating multiple opportunities in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. Additionally, management believes its existing and new private capital co investment ventures and joint ventures are well positioned to benefit from the expected shift in customer demand for high quality, well located industrial real estate. Strength of Balance Sheet and Liquidity The company completed more than $1.9 billion of financings during the fourth quarter. This activity included $1.5 billion of wholly owned debt consisting of the renewal of its two lines of credit, a corporate term loan, a new bond issuance, and $391 million for its co investment ventures in Europe, Japan and the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed financings of approximately $4.0 billion. These transactions further improved and extended the weighted average remaining life of the companys share of debt to 4.8 years from 3.8 years at an average interest rate of 4.6 percent. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of total debt to share of total assets was 43 percent, which includes its share of joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of liquidity was approximately $1.6 billion, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of availability on its lines of credit and more than $260 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. Real Estate Operations Fundamentals in the U.S. industrial real estate market further improved in the fourth quarter. According to CBRE Econometric Advisors, the availability rate declined 30 basis points to 14.3% and net absorption was positive 33.2 million square feet. This is the largest improvement in net absorption in three years as well as more than four times the level reached in the third quarter. The recovery was more broad based in the fourth quarter with approximately three quarters of the markets in the U.S. reflecting positive net absorption, which represents a 25 point increase from the third quarter. Availabilities in the coastal markets declined 30 basis points to 12.0% after peaking at 12.5% in the first quarter 2010. The company continues to believe that record low construction, when met by stronger demand, will drive the availability rate back down and that there will be a substantial improvement in net absorption in 2011. Cash basis same store net operating income (SS NOI), without the effects of lease termination fees, increased 0.9 percent during the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009, driven by increases in occupancy. This increase in quarterly SS NOI marked the first positive year over year performance since the fourth quarter of 2008. SS NOI for the full year 2010 decreased 3.2 percent. 59 Table of Contents Rent changes on rollovers declined 11.9% on a trailing four quarter basis and decreased 11.6% for the quarter. Rent changes on rollover were negative for 2010, although management believes net effective rents have bottomed in most of the companys markets today. Capital Deployment The company commenced new development in the fourth quarter totaling approximately 695,800 square feet (64,640 square meters) and approximately 1.6 million square feet (150,150 square meters) during 2010 in Brazil, China and Mexico, with an estimated total investment of $102.9 million. During the quarter, acquisitions totaled $144.2 million, including $54.5 million for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $89.7 million for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. The company also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, the company held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Private Capital Business During 2010, the company raised a record $781.4 million in third party private equity. As of December 31, 2010, the company had assets under management in nine significant co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $8.2 billion. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million using the same exchange rate, at full deployment. During 2010, in addition to the commitments of third party equity in AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. and AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, the companys two open ended funds received capital commitments comprising $257.0 million in third party equity in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in third party equity in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. As of July 13, 2010, the members of AMB SGP Mexico, LLC agreed to an early termination of the investment period of, and acquisition exclusivity in favor of, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. Equity holders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, there was no redemption queue for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 60 Table of Contents Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed the following significant transactions: Issued approximately 18.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $27.50 per share, generating approximately $479 million in net proceeds; Issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.50% due 2017; Issued $175.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.00% due 2018; Acquired 16 properties aggregating approximately 4.8 million square feet for an aggregate price of $343.3 million, including approximately 1.1 million square feet for $36.9 million for the company, as well as 2.2 million square feet for $174.8 million and 1.5 million square feet for $131.6 million, respectively, for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, which are unconsolidated co investment ventures; Acquired a 50% equity interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million; Acquired three land parcels totaling 192 acres in Brazil for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $39.9 million, the companys first acquisitions with the companys joint venture partner, CCP, and commenced development of 0.6 million square feet of properties; Formed AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and contributed the companys equity investment in the companys joint venture with CCP into AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P.; Formed AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico, with third party institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans; Contributed two completed development projects aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units with a fair value of $22.4 million; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet to third parties, including 0.2 million square feet that was part of an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $36.4 million, of which $12.5 million related to the installment sale; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 1.7 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $94.5 million; Invested $200 million in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $100 million in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS; and Raised $781.4 in third party equity commitments to the companys unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part I, Item 1, Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and 61 Table of Contents on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical 62 Table of Contents operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. These amendments require an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Additionally, they require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary and provide a framework for the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, and the company has adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. The company has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this guidance, and it did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States on the net income it distributes currently to its shareholders if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities 63 Table of Contents may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2008 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2010, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 68.5 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Acquired:(1) Number of properties 2 10 Square feet (in thousands) 1,143 2,831 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ 36,886 $ $ 217,044 Development Properties Sold or Contributed:(2) Square feet (in thousands)(3) 665 3,387 5,274 (1) Includes value added acquisitions. (2) Excludes value added acquisitions. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2010, the square footage includes 0.2 million square feet related to an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 64 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 483.0 $ 497.4 $ (14.4 ) (2.9 )% Development 31.2 22.5 8.7 38.7 % Other industrial 88.4 60.5 27.9 46.1 % Total rental revenues 602.6 580.4 22.2 3.8 % Private capital revenues 30.9 38.0 (7.1 ) (18.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.5 $ 618.4 $ 15.1 2.4 % Same store rental revenues decreased $14.4 million from the prior year due primarily to decreased average occupancy and rental rates and increased free rent, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $8.7 million is primarily due to increased occupancy of the companys development portfolio as the company continues lease up of the development pool, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $27.9 million primarily reflects the further lease up of the companys development portfolio and higher occupancy, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010, partially offset by increased free rent. The decrease in private capital revenues of $7.1 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and asset management fees recognized in 2010 as compared to fees recognized in the prior year for incentive distributions received from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., partially offset by an increase in acquisition fees recognized in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 110.7 $ 107.2 $ 3.5 3.3 % Real estate taxes 78.0 76.0 2.0 2.6 % Total property operating costs $ 188.7 $ 183.2 $ 5.5 3.0 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 148.0 $ 151.2 $ (3.2 ) (2.1 )% Development 16.9 10.3 6.6 64.1 % Other industrial 23.8 21.7 2.1 9.7 % Total property operating costs 188.7 183.2 5.5 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization 196.6 175.3 21.3 12.2 % General and administrative 124.4 115.3 9.1 7.9 % Restructuring charges 4.9 6.4 (1.5 ) (23.4 )% Fund costs 0.8 1.1 (0.3 ) (27.3 )% Real estate impairment losses 172.1 (172.1 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 3.2 8.7 (5.5 ) (63.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 518.6 $ 662.1 $ (143.5 ) (21.7 )% The decrease in same store operating expenses of $3.2 million from the prior year was primarily due to decreased average occupancy along with a decrease in repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and real estate taxes, partially offset by an increase in ground rent expense. The 65 Table of Contents increase in development operating costs of $6.6 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes and other operating expenses due to continued lease up and higher occupancy of the development portfolio. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $2.1 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and ground rent expenses during 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $21.3 million is primarily due to increased asset stabilizations and assets moving out of the held for sale or contribution pools in the early part of 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $9.1 million is primarily due to an increase in professional service expenses, an increase in stock compensation amortization related to additional issuances of stock options and restricted stock in 2010 and a reduction in capitalized development costs, partially offset by decreases in tax expense, office expenses and insurance expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recorded $4.9 million in restructuring charges associated with severance and the termination of certain contractual obligations, as compared to $6.4 million recorded in 2009, due to the further implementation of a previously initiated cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The company did not record any real estate impairment losses in 2010. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009. Other expenses decreased $5.5 million primarily as a result of a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan as well as a decrease in dead deal costs from prior year, partially offset by an increase of acquisition costs in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 6.7 $ 35.9 $ (29.2 ) (81.3 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.4 11.3 6.1 54.0 % Other income 3.5 3.5 % Interest expense, including amortization (130.3 ) (118.9 ) 11.4 9.6 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (2.9 ) (12.3 ) (9.4 ) (76.4 )% Total other income and (expenses), net $ (105.6 ) $ (80.5 ) $ (25.1 ) (31.2 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.9 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million. This includes the installment sale of approximately 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million with development profits of $3.9 million recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development losses of approximately $0.2 million, as a result of the contribution of two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet, to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units in the fund. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $6.1 million in 2010 was primarily due to impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management during 2009. Interest expense increased $11.4 million over the same period in 2009 primarily due to an additional bond issuance in the fourth quarter of 2009, along with higher line utilization in 2010. Loss on early extinguishment of debt decreased by 66 Table of Contents $9.4 million primarily due to the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.0 $ 4.5 $ (0.5 ) (11.1 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 (53.0 ) (100.0 )% Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 20.2 38.7 (18.5 ) (47.8 )% Total discontinued operations $ 24.2 $ 96.2 $ (72.0 ) (74.8 )% During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company did not sell any value added conversion development projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 (9.8 ) (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (6.0 ) $ (9.8 ) 163.3 % No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2010. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 497.4 $ 560.8 $ (63.4 ) (11.3 )% Development 22.5 11.7 10.8 92.3 % Other industrial 60.5 36.7 23.8 64.9 % Total rental revenues 580.4 609.2 (28.8 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 38.0 68.5 (30.5 ) (44.5 )% Total revenues $ 618.4 $ 677.7 $ (59.3 ) (8.8 )% 67 Table of Contents Same store rental revenues decreased $63.4 million in 2009 from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended 2008 would have been $522.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $25.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $10.8 million is primarily due to further lease up of the development pool and increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $23.8 million primarily reflects further lease up of the development pool and an increase in the number of projects that reached these levels of operation in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions from AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. For the Years Ended Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 107.2 $ 98.0 $ 9.2 9.4 % Real estate taxes 76.0 75.9 0.1 0.1 % Total property operating costs $ 183.2 $ 173.9 $ 9.3 5.3 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 151.2 $ 157.2 $ (6.0 ) (3.8 )% Development 10.3 2.1 8.2 390.5 % Other industrial 21.7 14.6 7.1 48.6 % Total property operating costs 183.2 173.9 9.3 5.3 % Depreciation and amortization 175.3 161.0 14.3 8.9 % General and administrative 115.3 143.9 (28.6 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 172.1 182.9 (10.8 ) (5.9 )% Other expenses 8.7 0.5 8.2 1,640.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 662.1 $ 675.6 $ (13.5 ) (2.0 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $147.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008. The increase of $3.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $8.2 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of 68 Table of Contents the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $7.1 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and administrative expenses due to an increase in the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $14.3 million was primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.6 million in 2009 was primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. The increase in other expenses of $8.2 million was primarily due to changes in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan in 2009 as compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs from amounts recognized in 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expense) 3.5 (3.1 ) 6.6 212.9 % Interest expense, including amortization (118.9 ) (134.3 ) (15.4 ) (11.5 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.5 ) $ (20.0 ) $ (60.5 ) (302.5 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres, for an aggregate sales price of $26.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, 69 Table of Contents a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income (expense) increased $6.6 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income due to lower cash balances and interest rates in 2009 and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $15.4 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates in 2009. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.5 $ 8.6 $ (4.1 ) (47.7 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 96.2 $ 11.2 $ 85.0 758.9 % The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to higher real estate impairment losses recognized in 2009 on properties sold through December 31, 2010 or held for sale as of December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. No value added conversion development projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which was disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 (62.0 )% On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. 70 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 1.8% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2010: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. 71 Table of Contents In September 2010, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock. The parent company has not repurchased any shares of its common stock under this program. Market Equity as of December 31, 2010 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 168,736,081 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,350,621 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,777,824 $ 5,447,075 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships 72 Table of Contents organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.0% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total assets was approximately $9.3 billion. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. 73 Table of Contents Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 74 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (193,428 ) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (13,374 ) (21,178 ) (66,007 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its other debt obligations related to the following two facilities. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. These term loans contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, 75 Table of Contents which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. This facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. As of December 31, 2010, this facility had a balance of $139.5 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to extend the maturity date to July 2012. As of December 31, 2010, this facility, maturing in July 2011, had a balance of $129.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; 76 Table of Contents net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; investments in existing or newly formed joint ventures; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, cash provided by operating activities was $252.8 million as compared to $243.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash used in investing activities was $586.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $84.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and an increase in additions to interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, partially offset by a decrease in additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs. Cash provided by financing activities was $329.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $298.4 million for the same period in 2009. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net payments on unsecured credit facilities and an increase in net proceeds from issuance of senior debt, net of payments. This activity was partially offset by a decrease in the issuance of common units, an increase in distributions paid and an increase in net payments on other debt. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding 168,506,670 common general partnership units; 2,058,730 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions 77 Table of Contents on a consolidated basis, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 Square feet 3,685,677 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 264,697 Sold: Number of projects 3 Square feet 774,663 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 62,695 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 13 24 Square feet 4,504,551 6,669,855 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 567,634 Total: Number of projects 13 38 Square feet 4,504,551 11,130,195 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 895,026 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010(1) 2009 2008 Square feet 485,022 1,977,185 73,927 Gross sales price $ 36,372 $ 293,846 $ 26,116 Net proceeds $ 35,089 $ 254,888 $ 23,557 Development profits, net of taxes $ 6,910 $ 59,068 $ 7,235 (1) Includes the installment sale of 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million gross sales price ($12.0 million net proceeds) with development gains of $3.9 million recognized in the year ended December 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 78 Table of Contents Development contributions to co investment ventures during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Number of projects contributed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 2 4 Square Feet 428,180 2,723,003 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 Square Feet 1,421,043 Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 2 2 Square Feet 179,693 164,574 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 Square Feet 981,162 891,596 Total number of contributed development assets 2 3 11 Total square feet 179,693 1,409,342 5,200,216 Gross contribution price $ 22,391 $ 217,293 $ 508,748 Net proceeds $ 22,391 $ 56,822 $ 394,025 Development (losses) profits, net of taxes $ (171 ) $ 29,808 $ 73,849 Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by third party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for sale ten properties with an aggregate net book value of $55.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures eight properties with an aggregate net book value of $186.2 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 90% to an expected range of less than 40%. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million. As of December 31, 2010, no properties were reclassified from held for sale or held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership recognized $1.2 million of additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million as a result of similar reclassifications, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. 79 Table of Contents Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership owned approximately 80.8 million square feet of its properties (50.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. Estimated investment capacity in AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, including the total equity contributions of $315.3 million, is $600 million. 80 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 24 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Operating Estimated Ownership Partnerships Net Investment Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Equity Investment Capacity(1) AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(2) AMB U.S. Logistics REIT, Inc. 35 % $ 409,377 $ 190,000 (3) AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS Institutional investors 38 % $ 172,903 $ 300,000 (3) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 82,482 $ AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 20,646 $ AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 14,426 $ (4) AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. Major university endowment 25 % $ 32,910 $ 390,000 (1) AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico has additional investment capacity of $600 million as of December 31, 2010. (2) Effective January 1, 2010, the name of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. was changed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. Effective October 29, 2010, the name of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS was changed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. (3) The investment capacity of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, as open ended funds, is not limited. Investment capacity is estimated based on the cash of the fund and additional leverage and may change. (4) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and, as of December 31, 2010, the remaining estimated investment is $6.6 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. In addition to the equity investments shown above, the operating partnership, through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the company entered into a mortgage debt investment joint venture with a third party partner and held an equity interest of $86.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize 81 Table of Contents its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market capital, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.0 billion, excluding $0.1 million of unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.0 billion of secured debt, $731.2 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2010, bore interest at rates varying from 1.0% to 8.3% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.3%) and had final maturity dates ranging from July 2011 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2010, $695.7 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1%), while the remaining $266.6 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.3%). As of December 31, 2010, $586.8 million of the secured debt before unamortized premiums was held by co investment ventures, including the AMB SGP, L.P. loan agreement discussed below. On February 14, 2007, seven subsidiaries of AMB SGP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which is a subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into a loan agreement for a $305.0 million secured financing. On the same day, pursuant to the loan agreement, the same seven subsidiaries delivered four promissory notes to the two lenders, each of which mature in March 2012. One note has a principal of $160.0 million and an interest rate that is fixed at 5.29%. The second note has an initial principal borrowing of $40.0 million with a variable interest rate of 81.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The third note has an initial principal borrowing of $84.0 million and a fixed interest rate of 5.90%. The fourth note has an initial principal borrowing of $21.0 million and bears interest at a variable rate of 135.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The aggregate principal amount outstanding under this loan agreement as of December 31, 2010 was $289.1 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In August 2010 and November 2010, the operating partnership issued senior unsecured notes of $300.0 million at 4.50% due 2017 and $175.0 million at 4.00% due 2018, respectively. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $414.0 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and had an average term of 3.3 years. Other debt includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $54.3 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2010. The remaining $359.7 million outstanding in other debt, using the exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010, is related to the term loans discussed below. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, 82 Table of Contents in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These unsecured credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2010. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. A downgrade in the operating partnerships credit ratings on its long term debt could adversely affect its business and financial condition. A decrease in the operating partnerships credit ratings could cause a negative reaction in the public and private markets for the parent companys and the operating partnerships securities, increase difficulty in accessing optimally priced financing and damage public perception of the companys business. Also, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. Also, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit 83 Table of Contents facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, increases in the cost of credit and difficulty in accessing the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact the operating partnerships business and financial condition such as occupancy levels of its properties. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The facility can be increased to up to $800.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 84 Table of Contents 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 35.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $600.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, there was no outstanding balance on this credit facility, and the remaining amount available was $589.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $10.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. The rate on the borrowings is generally Yen LIBOR plus a margin, which was 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 35.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, was $139.5 million, and the remaining amount available was $415.0 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2010, was approximately $129.4 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%, and the remaining amount available was $370.6 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2010. 85 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Unsecured Total Consolidated Total Unconsolidated AMBs Share of Senior Credit Other Secured Wholly Owned Joint Consolidated Joint Total Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Debt 2011 $ 69,000 $ 129,443 $ $ 15,499 $ 213,942 $ 139,410 $ 353,352 $ 414,907 $ 768,259 $ 395,844 2012 153,903 29,636 183,539 468,361 651,900 434,468 1,086,368 478,649 2013 293,897 23,366 317,263 103,568 420,831 732,130 1,152,961 547,092 2014 139,490 4,904 144,394 8,809 153,203 556,096 709,299 357,254 2015 112,491 205,773 7,908 326,172 16,943 343,115 464,706 807,821 504,984 2016 250,000 81,936 331,936 15,499 347,435 170,709 518,144 397,384 2017 300,000 67,913 367,913 490 368,403 92,414 460,817 388,927 2018 300,000 300,000 595 300,595 96,694 397,289 334,094 2019 250,000 250,000 28,713 278,713 11,778 290,491 270,707 2020 123,213 123,213 645 123,858 211,643 335,501 197,459 Thereafter 2,450 2,450 377,455 379,905 133,164 Subtotal $ 1,698,601 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,162 $ 2,558,372 $ 785,483 $ 3,343,855 $ 3,563,000 $ 6,906,855 $ 4,005,558 Unamortized net (discounts) premiums (12,645 ) 43 (12,602 ) 46 (12,556 ) (4,580 ) (17,136 ) (15,995 ) Subtotal $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 785,529 $ 3,331,299 $ 3,558,420 $ 6,889,719 $ 3,989,563 Joint venture partners share of debt (451,335 ) (451,335 ) (2,448,821 ) (2,900,156 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 334,194 $ 2,879,964 $ 1,109,599 $ 3,989,563 $ 3,989,563 Weighted average interest rate 5.6 % 1.7 % 3.0 % 2.9 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.9 3.6 4.9 5.2 1.9 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.7 billion. Includes $37.0 million in U.S. dollar borrowings and $139.5 million, $70.1 million, and $22.3 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2010, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 86 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2011 through 2014, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 $ Credit Facilities 129,443 Other Debt 153,903 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 14,300 28,068 22,090 Subtotal 83,300 311,414 315,987 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 39,273 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 3,850 199,972 4,590 AMB SGP, L.P. 38,176 289,125 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 53,311 30,972 20,355 4,344 Subtotal 91,487 323,947 259,600 8,934 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB SGP Mexico 58,825 163,769 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 151,511 212,617 493,566 AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 412,234 AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 30,310 29,397 181,457 117,995 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 31,081 57,299 30,861 Subtotal 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total Consolidated 174,787 635,361 575,587 8,934 Total Unconsolidated 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total $ 446,514 $ 1,041,144 $ 1,307,909 $ 570,024 Total Operating Partnerships Share(3) $ 201,771 $ 563,687 $ 580,546 $ 215,449 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2014, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2011 through 2014 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Market Capital as of December 31, 2010 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 168,506,670 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,343,347 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,548,413 $ 5,439,801 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. 87 Table of Contents (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.0% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total assets was $9.3 billion. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. 88 Table of Contents Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $30.0 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $224 million while increasing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $409 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $1.4 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 17%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2010, approximately $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units(1) $ $ 2.69 $ 3.59 (1) On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by 89 Table of Contents operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Distributions paid to partners (195,755 ) (139,515 ) (224,549 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (11,047 ) (18,771 ) (61,934 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Development starts, generally defined as projects where the operating partnership has obtained building permits and has begun physical construction, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 on an owned and managed basis were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Number of new development projects 4 Square feet 860,497 Estimated total investment(1) $ 68,146 $ Asia: Number of new development projects 3 Square feet 755,752 Estimated total investment(1) $ 34,718 $ Total: Number of new development projects 7 Square feet 1,616,249 Estimated total investment(1) $ 102,864 $ Total construction in progress estimated investment(1)(2) $ 170,751 $ Total construction in progress invested to date(3) $ 107,274 $ Total construction in progress remaining to invest(3)(4) $ 63,477 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, and associated carry costs. Estimated total investments are based on current 90 Table of Contents forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. (2) Excludes the impact of real estate impairment losses and includes value added conversions. (3) Amounts include capitalized interest and overhead costs, as applicable. (4) Calculated using estimated total investment before the impact of real estate impairment losses. Development Portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had eight construction in progress development projects, on an owned and managed basis, which are expected to total approximately 2.2 million square feet and have an aggregate estimated investment of $169.8 million upon completion, net of $1.0 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date. Four of these projects totaling approximately 1.2 million square feet with an aggregate estimated investment of $124.2 million were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture. Construction in progress, at December 31, 2010, included projects expected to be completed through the third quarter of 2012. On an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership had an additional 25 development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 6.8 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $700.0 million, net of $67.6 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date, and an aggregate net book value of $680.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership and its development joint venture partners have funded an aggregate of $855.5 million, or 91%, of the total estimated investment before the impact of real estate investment losses and will need to fund an estimated additional $82.9 million, or 9%, in order to complete its development portfolio. In addition to its committed development pipeline, the operating partnership held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale, on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which was located in the Americas. This included 254 acres that were held in unconsolidated joint ventures. The operating partnership currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 79 years. These buildings and improvements subject to ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2011 $ 36,278 2012 33,412 2013 30,387 2014 28,724 2015 27,357 Thereafter 414,203 Total $ 570,361 Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures of $732.7 million and a gross book value of approximately $7.1 billion. In the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership made a $200.0 million investment in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and a $100.0 million investment in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. Additionally, third party investors contributed $257.0 million to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in AMB 91 Table of Contents Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS during the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $286.4 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This could increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. In addition, on August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. As of December 31, 2010, no investments had been made in real estate properties within this co investment venture. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; 92 Table of Contents claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Acres 213 4 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,635,800 Investment(1) $ 47,509 $ 1,539 Europe: Acres 11 2 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 377,479 67,805 Investment(1) $ 37,384 $ 5,656 Asia: Acres 38 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 Investment(1) $ $ 17,032 Total: Acres 224 44 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 4,013,279 1,143,624 Investment(1) $ 84,893 $ 24,227 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. 93 Table of Contents Acquisition activity, including value added acquisitions, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Number of properties acquired by AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 9 Square feet 2,231,719 Expected investment(1) $ 174,783 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 5 Square feet 1,458,691 Expected investment(1) $ 131,640 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 2 Square feet 1,143,355 Expected investment(1) $ 36,886 $ Total number of properties acquired 16 Total square feet 4,833,765 Total acquisition cost $ 334,754 $ Total acquisition capital 8,555 Total expected investment(1) $ 343,309 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 353,352 $ 1,072,731 $ 496,318 $ 1,421,454 $ 3,343,855 Debt interest payments 13,630 53,374 15,698 71,778 154,480 Operating lease commitments 36,278 63,799 56,081 414,203 570,361 Tax liabilities(1) 6,290 6,290 Co investment venture capital commitments(2) 90,896 89,192 61,732 44,565 286,385 Total $ 494,156 $ 1,285,386 $ 629,829 $ 1,952,000 $ 4,361,371 (1) These amounts represent an estimate of our income tax liabilities, including an estimate of the period of settlement. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the companys tax obligations. (2) Commitments due in less than one year includes $24.6 million committed to secure a line of credit for AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, which the parent company does not expect to be called. 94 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2010, the company had provided approximately $12.9 million in letters of credit, of which $10.4 million were provided under the operating partnerships $600.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part I, Item 1, Notes 5, 6 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $403.0 million as described below. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2010, the company also guaranteed $58.6 million and $83.5 million on outstanding loans on five of its consolidated joint ventures and three of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2010. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $3.8 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations, as adjusted (FFO, as adjusted) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit, as adjusted (FFOPS, as adjusted) The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, as adjusted (or FFO, as adjusted), FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or FFOPS, as adjusted), Core FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or Core FFOPS, as adjusted) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS, as adjusted, as FFO, as adjusted, per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO, as adjusted, as net income (or loss) available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO, as adjusted of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company defines Core FFOPS, as adjusted as Core FFO, as adjusted per fully diluted weighted share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates Core FFO, as adjusted as FFO, as adjusted excluding 95 Table of Contents the companys share of development profits. These calculations also include adjustments for items as described below. Unless stated otherwise, the company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO, as adjusted. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO, as adjusted, to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, as adjusted, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in funds from operations. However, the companys interpretation of FFO, as adjusted, or FFOPS, as adjusted, may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to funds from operations or funds from operations per share and unit reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO, as adjusted, gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO, as adjusted, will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO, as adjusted. In addition, the company calculates FFO, as adjusted, to exclude impairment and restructuring charges, debt extinguishment losses and the Series D preferred unit redemption discount. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted values. The restructuring charges reflected costs associated with the companys reduction in global headcount and cost structure. Debt extinguishment losses generally included the costs of repurchasing debt securities. The company repurchased certain tranches of senior unsecured debt to manage its debt maturities in response to the current financing environment, resulting in greater debt extinguishment costs. The Series D preferred unit redemption discount reflects the gain associated with the discount to liquidation preference in the Series D preferred unit redemption price less costs incurred as a result of the redemption. In 2008, the company also recognized charges to write off pursuit costs related to development projects it no longer planned to commence and to establish a reserve against tax assets associated with the reduction of its development activities. Although difficult to predict, these items may be recurring given the uncertainty of the current economic climate and its adverse effects on the real estate and financial markets. While not infrequent or unusual in nature, these items result from market fluctuations that can have inconsistent effects on the companys results of operations. The economics underlying these items reflect market and financing conditions in the short term but can obscure the companys performance and the value of the companys long term investment decisions and strategies. Management believes FFO, as adjusted, is significant and useful to both it and its investors. FFO, as adjusted, more appropriately reflects the value and strength of the companys business model and its potential performance isolated from the volatility of the current economic environment and unobscured by costs (or gains) resulting from the companys management of its financing profile in response to the tightening of the capital markets. However, in addition to the limitations of FFO Measures, as adjusted, generally discussed below, FFO, as adjusted, does not present a comprehensive measure of the companys financial condition and operating performance. This measure is a modification of the NAREIT definition of funds from operations and should not be used as an alternative to net income or cash as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the FFO Measures, as adjusted, are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, 96 Table of Contents are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While funds from operations and funds from operations per share are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. The FFO Measures, as adjusted, also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are the FFO Measures, as adjusted, necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, and a reconciliation of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to net income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 97 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO, as adjusted, reconciled from net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ 10,122 $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership (155 ) 789 782 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders of the parent company 9,967 (50,077 ) (66,451 ) Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (20,248 ) (38,718 ) (22,561 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Discontinued operations depreciation 3,447 6,602 8,199 Non real estate depreciation (8,432 ) (8,593 ) (7,270 ) Adjustment for depreciation on development profits (1,546 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net loss) 6,278 11,063 32,855 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net loss (income)) 88 (3,625 ) (5,063 ) Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) 133 2,377 2,822 FFO, as adjusted, attributable to noncontrolling interests (28,251 ) (31,571 ) (50,381 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net (income) loss (17,372 ) (11,331 ) (17,121 ) The companys share of FFO, as adjusted 61,903 47,549 44,589 Adjustments for impairments, restructuring charges and debt extinguishment: Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 Discontinued operations real estate impairment losses 9,794 11,052 Pursuit costs and tax reserve 11,834 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,892 12,267 786 Preferred unit redemption discount (9,759 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) (182 ) (898 ) (1,186 ) Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Basic FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.10 $ 2.95 Diluted FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.09 $ 2.90 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Development profits, net of taxes (6,739 ) (88,876 ) (81,084 ) Joint venture partners and limited partnership unitholders share of development profits, net of taxes 61 3,308 9,041 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) (133 ) (2,377 ) (2,822 ) AMBs share of development profits from unconsolidated joint ventures (9 ) (271 ) (2,071 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) 49 585 645 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted(1) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 Basic Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.23 $ 1.46 $ 2.19 Diluted Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.22 $ 1.46 $ 2.16 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO, as adjusted, distributed through declared dividends and 98 Table of Contents allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 1,202,122, 918,753 and 855,919 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines NOI as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of gains (losses), costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers SS NOI to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines Cash basis SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and development stabilized after December 31, 2008. The company considers SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI helps investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI. 99 Table of Contents The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) $ 33,594 $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) Private capital revenues (30,860 ) (38,013 ) (68,472 ) Depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 General and administrative and fund costs 125,155 116,404 145,040 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 108,773 89,170 20,509 Total discontinued operations (24,242 ) (96,222 ) (11,169 ) Net operating income 413,930 397,140 435,330 Less non same store NOI (73,535 ) (47,582 ) (26,626 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (9,045 ) (2,803 ) (5,457 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 331,350 $ 346,755 $ 403,247 Less lease termination fees (3,059 ) (2,692 ) (5,518 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 328,291 $ 344,063 $ 397,729 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $12.6 million as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 143,598 $ 544,574 $ 365,635 $ 13,713 $ 137,342 $ 1,393,341 $ 2,598,203 $ 2,672,107 Average interest rate 6.5 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.3 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 209,754 $ 107,326 $ 55,196 $ 139,490 $ 205,773 $ 28,113 $ 745,652 $ 742,076 Average interest rate 2.1 % 1.8 % 2.9 % 1.7 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 2.2 % n/a Interest payments(3) $ 13,630 $ 29,611 $ 23,763 $ 3,037 $ 12,661 $ 71,778 $ 154,480 n/a (1) Represents 77.7% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (2) Represents 22.3% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (3) Represents interest expense related only to the debt balances maturing in each respective year, based upon interest rates at the balance sheet date. 100 Table of Contents If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $1.6 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2010, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) both were $3.2 billion, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, variable rate debt comprised 22.3% and 38.8%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income for any ineffectiveness. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2010 were 24 interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands): Cash Flow Hedges EUR Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 11 1.2600 % $ 7,698 $ (8 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1575 % $ 112,240 $ (189 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1710 % $ 65,473 $ (119 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1550 % $ 28,060 $ (47 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 12 1.7300 % $ 10,910 $ (81 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4875 % $ 112,240 $ (129 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.5010 % $ 65,473 $ (85 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4850 % $ 28,060 $ (32 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 13 2.2200 % $ 12,584 $ (133 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9975 % $ 112,240 $ 299 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 2.0110 % $ 65,473 $ 160 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9950 % $ 28,060 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5875 % $ 112,240 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.6010 % $ 65,473 $ 26 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5850 % $ 28,060 $ 16 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0025 % $ 112,240 $ 112 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0160 % $ 65,473 $ 51 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0000 % $ 28,060 $ 25 $ 1,060,057 $ 12 101 Table of Contents Cash Flow Hedges JPY Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. JPY TIBOR October 12 0.6000 % $ 153,903 $ (420 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 25,998 $ (54 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 16,018 $ (34 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 25,320 $ (244 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 16,018 $ (155 ) $ 237,257 $ (907 ) Cash Flow Hedges USD Caps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Cap 1 mo. USD LIBOR October 12 4.2500 % $ 25,909 $ 8 $ 25,909 $ 8 Non Designated Hedges FX Forward Pay Fixed Buy Notional Amount Derivative Type Forward Rate Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value FX Forward 1.335675 March 11 EUR 124,143 $ 165,815 $ 108 FX Forward 1.551 March 11 GBP 17,000 $ 26,367 $ (85 ) FX Forward 1.00065 March 11 CAD 165,000 $ 164,893 $ (627 ) FX Forward 1.00075 March 11 CAD 78,000 $ 77,942 $ (304 ) $ 435,017 $ (908 ) Non Designated Hedges IR Swap Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR June 11 4.4500 % $ 25,168 $ 713 $ 25,168 $ 713 Total USD Equivalent Amount $ 1,783,408 $ (1,082 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The gains (losses) resulting from the translation are 102 Table of Contents included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $36.7 million and $(22.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total unrealized and realized gains (losses) from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $1.4 million, $(7.2) million and $(5.7) million, respectively. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Overview The global economic recovery gained momentum in 2010, which made it possible for the company to successfully execute on its key growth initiatives for the year. In recognition of the improving capital markets and operating fundamentals around the world, management believes that the company has a leading position and competitive advantage in pursuing growth opportunities. As such, the companys three priorities for 2011 are to: increase the utilization of its assets; scale the organization and become more profitable; and form new co investment ventures and funds. Management believes the pace of the global economic recovery is strengthening and expects to see earnings growth if the company is able to improve asset utilization by returning its owned and managed portfolio closer to its historical occupancy average of 95%; complete the lease up of its development portfolio; and realize value from its land bank through new ventures, sales and future build to suit projects. Management believes the U.S. is in the early stages of the inventory rebuilding process and that the slower than normal rebuild does not signify a secular change in global supply chain practices, but rather inventories were drawn down to unsustainable levels due to stronger than anticipated holiday retail sales. The company believes that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and is currently evaluating multiple opportunities in its target markets around the globe. Management believes that its ability to provide multiple forms of consideration to institutional investors, lenders and private developers provide the company with proprietary access to acquisition opportunities. Additionally, management believes its existing and new private capital co investment ventures and joint ventures are well positioned to benefit from the expected shift in customer demand for high quality, well located industrial real estate. Strength of Balance Sheet and Liquidity The company completed more than $1.9 billion of financings during the fourth quarter. This activity included $1.5 billion of wholly owned debt consisting of the renewal of its two lines of credit, a corporate term loan, a new bond issuance, and $391 million for its co investment ventures in Europe, Japan and the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed financings of approximately $4.0 billion. These transactions further improved and extended the weighted average remaining life of the companys share of debt to 4.8 years from 3.8 years at an average interest rate of 4.6 percent. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of total debt to share of total assets was 43 percent, which includes its share of joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2010 the companys share of liquidity was approximately $1.6 billion, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of availability on its lines of credit and more than $260 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. Real Estate Operations Fundamentals in the U.S. industrial real estate market further improved in the fourth quarter. According to CBRE Econometric Advisors, the availability rate declined 30 basis points to 14.3% and net absorption was positive 33.2 million square feet. This is the largest improvement in net absorption in three years as well as more than four times the level reached in the third quarter. The recovery was more broad based in the fourth quarter with approximately three quarters of the markets in the U.S. reflecting positive net absorption, which represents a 25 point increase from the third quarter. Availabilities in the coastal markets declined 30 basis points to 12.0% after peaking at 12.5% in the first quarter 2010. The company continues to believe that record low construction, when met by stronger demand, will drive the availability rate back down and that there will be a substantial improvement in net absorption in 2011. Cash basis same store net operating income (SS NOI), without the effects of lease termination fees, increased 0.9 percent during the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009, driven by increases in occupancy. This increase in quarterly SS NOI marked the first positive year over year performance since the fourth quarter of 2008. SS NOI for the full year 2010 decreased 3.2 percent. 59 Table of Contents Rent changes on rollovers declined 11.9% on a trailing four quarter basis and decreased 11.6% for the quarter. Rent changes on rollover were negative for 2010, although management believes net effective rents have bottomed in most of the companys markets today. Capital Deployment The company commenced new development in the fourth quarter totaling approximately 695,800 square feet (64,640 square meters) and approximately 1.6 million square feet (150,150 square meters) during 2010 in Brazil, China and Mexico, with an estimated total investment of $102.9 million. During the quarter, acquisitions totaled $144.2 million, including $54.5 million for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $89.7 million for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. The company also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, the company held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which is located in the Americas. The company currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Private Capital Business During 2010, the company raised a record $781.4 million in third party private equity. As of December 31, 2010, the company had assets under management in nine significant co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $8.2 billion. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million using the same exchange rate, at full deployment. During 2010, in addition to the commitments of third party equity in AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. and AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, the companys two open ended funds received capital commitments comprising $257.0 million in third party equity in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in third party equity in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. As of July 13, 2010, the members of AMB SGP Mexico, LLC agreed to an early termination of the investment period of, and acquisition exclusivity in favor of, AMB SGP Mexico, LLC. Equity holders in two of the companys co investment ventures, AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, have a right to request that the ventures redeem their interests under certain conditions. The redemption right of investors in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS is exercisable beginning after July 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, there was no redemption queue for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 60 Table of Contents Summary of Key Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company completed the following significant transactions: Issued approximately 18.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $27.50 per share, generating approximately $479 million in net proceeds; Issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.50% due 2017; Issued $175.0 million of senior unsecured notes at 4.00% due 2018; Acquired 16 properties aggregating approximately 4.8 million square feet for an aggregate price of $343.3 million, including approximately 1.1 million square feet for $36.9 million for the company, as well as 2.2 million square feet for $174.8 million and 1.5 million square feet for $131.6 million, respectively, for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, which are unconsolidated co investment ventures; Acquired a 50% equity interest in a joint venture mortgage debt investment for $86.0 million; Acquired three land parcels totaling 192 acres in Brazil for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $39.9 million, the companys first acquisitions with the companys joint venture partner, CCP, and commenced development of 0.6 million square feet of properties; Formed AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a co investment venture with a third party investor whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and contributed the companys equity investment in the companys joint venture with CCP into AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P.; Formed AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico, with third party institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans; Contributed two completed development projects aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units with a fair value of $22.4 million; Sold development projects aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet to third parties, including 0.2 million square feet that was part of an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $36.4 million, of which $12.5 million related to the installment sale; Sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 1.7 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $94.5 million; Invested $200 million in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $100 million in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS; and Raised $781.4 in third party equity commitments to the companys unconsolidated co investment ventures. See Part I, Item 1, Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the companys acquisition, development and disposition activity. Critical Accounting Policies The companys discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The company evaluates its assumptions and estimates on an on going basis. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and 61 Table of Contents on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Investments in Real Estate. Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, an adjustment to the carrying value of the property is made to reduce it to its estimated fair value. The company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below market leases, in place leases and lease origination costs for acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. The company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two step test. The first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the assets carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. The company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third party appraisals on at least an annual basis. Revenue Recognition. The company records rental revenue from operating leases on a straight line basis over the term of the leases and maintains an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of the companys customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than the companys allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then the company may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. The company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its customers on an on going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period the company reviews its outstanding accounts receivable, including straight line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. The company also records lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with the company and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to the company. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customers occupancy. Property Dispositions. The company reports real estate dispositions in four separate categories on its consolidated statements of operations. First, when the company divests a portion of its interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third party investors for cash and are included in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests in the statements of operations. Second, the company disposes of value added conversion projects and build to suit and speculative development projects for which it has not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and is included in development profits, net of taxes, within continuing operations of the statements of operations. Third, the company disposes of value added conversion and other redevelopment projects for which it may have generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, in the development profits, net of taxes, line within discontinued operations. Lastly, guidance related to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets requires the company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical 62 Table of Contents operating results attributable to industrial operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in development profits and gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, in the statements of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also retrospectively adjusted to conform with guidance regarding accounting for discontinued operations and noncontrolling interests, and there is no impact on the companys previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met. Joint Ventures. The company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company consolidates joint ventures where it exhibits financial or operational control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. These amendments require an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Additionally, they require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary and provide a framework for the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, and the company has adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. The company has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this guidance, and it did not have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For joint ventures that are defined as variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary consolidates the entity. In instances where the company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures that are not defined as variable interest entities, management first considers whether the company is the general partner or a limited partner (or the equivalent in such investments which are not structured as partnerships). The company consolidates joint ventures where it is the general partner (or the equivalent) and the limited partners (or the equivalent) in such investments do not have rights which would preclude control and, therefore, consolidation for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where the company is the general partner (or the equivalent), but does not control the joint venture as the other partners (or the equivalent) hold substantive participating rights, the company uses the equity method of accounting. For joint ventures where the company is a limited partner (or the equivalent), management considers factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the partners (or the equivalent) to determine if the presumption that the general partner controls the entity is overcome. In instances where these factors indicate the company controls the joint venture, the company consolidates the joint venture; otherwise it uses the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. Under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the companys proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the companys ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the companys positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. Real Estate Investment Trust. As a real estate investment trust, the parent company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the United States on the net income it distributes currently to its shareholders if it meets minimum distribution requirements, and certain income, asset and share ownership tests. However, some of the companys subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities 63 Table of Contents may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on the companys taxable income arising from its taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. The company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The company concluded, based on a review of the relative weight of the available evidence, that it was more likely than not that it would not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize certain deferred tax assets. Foreign Currency Remeasurement and Translation. Transactions that require the remeasurement and translation of a foreign currency are recorded according to accounting guidance on foreign currency translation. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries formed in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. Other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties stabilized after December 31, 2008 (generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied). As of December 31, 2010, the same store industrial pool consisted of properties aggregating approximately 68.5 million square feet. The companys future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition and disposition of additional properties, and expenses may vary materially from historical results. Acquisition and development property divestiture activity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Acquired:(1) Number of properties 2 10 Square feet (in thousands) 1,143 2,831 Acquisition cost (in thousands) $ 36,886 $ $ 217,044 Development Properties Sold or Contributed:(2) Square feet (in thousands)(3) 665 3,387 5,274 (1) Includes value added acquisitions. (2) Excludes value added acquisitions. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2010, the square footage includes 0.2 million square feet related to an installment sale initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 64 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 483.0 $ 497.4 $ (14.4 ) (2.9 )% Development 31.2 22.5 8.7 38.7 % Other industrial 88.4 60.5 27.9 46.1 % Total rental revenues 602.6 580.4 22.2 3.8 % Private capital revenues 30.9 38.0 (7.1 ) (18.7 )% Total revenues $ 633.5 $ 618.4 $ 15.1 2.4 % Same store rental revenues decreased $14.4 million from the prior year due primarily to decreased average occupancy and rental rates and increased free rent, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $8.7 million is primarily due to increased occupancy of the companys development portfolio as the company continues lease up of the development pool, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $27.9 million primarily reflects the further lease up of the companys development portfolio and higher occupancy, along with higher common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursement in 2010, partially offset by increased free rent. The decrease in private capital revenues of $7.1 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and asset management fees recognized in 2010 as compared to fees recognized in the prior year for incentive distributions received from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., partially offset by an increase in acquisition fees recognized in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 110.7 $ 107.2 $ 3.5 3.3 % Real estate taxes 78.0 76.0 2.0 2.6 % Total property operating costs $ 188.7 $ 183.2 $ 5.5 3.0 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 148.0 $ 151.2 $ (3.2 ) (2.1 )% Development 16.9 10.3 6.6 64.1 % Other industrial 23.8 21.7 2.1 9.7 % Total property operating costs 188.7 183.2 5.5 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization 196.6 175.3 21.3 12.2 % General and administrative 124.4 115.3 9.1 7.9 % Restructuring charges 4.9 6.4 (1.5 ) (23.4 )% Fund costs 0.8 1.1 (0.3 ) (27.3 )% Real estate impairment losses 172.1 (172.1 ) (100.0 )% Other expenses 3.2 8.7 (5.5 ) (63.2 )% Total costs and expenses $ 518.6 $ 662.1 $ (143.5 ) (21.7 )% The decrease in same store operating expenses of $3.2 million from the prior year was primarily due to decreased average occupancy along with a decrease in repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and real estate taxes, partially offset by an increase in ground rent expense. The 65 Table of Contents increase in development operating costs of $6.6 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes and other operating expenses due to continued lease up and higher occupancy of the development portfolio. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $2.1 million was primarily due to an increase in utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, roads and grounds expenses, administrative expenses and ground rent expenses during 2010. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $21.3 million is primarily due to increased asset stabilizations and assets moving out of the held for sale or contribution pools in the early part of 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $9.1 million is primarily due to an increase in professional service expenses, an increase in stock compensation amortization related to additional issuances of stock options and restricted stock in 2010 and a reduction in capitalized development costs, partially offset by decreases in tax expense, office expenses and insurance expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recorded $4.9 million in restructuring charges associated with severance and the termination of certain contractual obligations, as compared to $6.4 million recorded in 2009, due to the further implementation of a previously initiated cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. The company did not record any real estate impairment losses in 2010. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009. Other expenses decreased $5.5 million primarily as a result of a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan as well as a decrease in dead deal costs from prior year, partially offset by an increase of acquisition costs in 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 6.7 $ 35.9 $ (29.2 ) (81.3 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 17.4 11.3 6.1 54.0 % Other income 3.5 3.5 % Interest expense, including amortization (130.3 ) (118.9 ) 11.4 9.6 % Loss on early extinguishment of debt (2.9 ) (12.3 ) (9.4 ) (76.4 )% Total other income and (expenses), net $ (105.6 ) $ (80.5 ) $ (25.1 ) (31.2 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.9 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million. This includes the installment sale of approximately 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million with development profits of $3.9 million recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized development losses of approximately $0.2 million, as a result of the contribution of two completed development projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet, to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS in exchange for units in the fund. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $6.1 million in 2010 was primarily due to impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management during 2009. Interest expense increased $11.4 million over the same period in 2009 primarily due to an additional bond issuance in the fourth quarter of 2009, along with higher line utilization in 2010. Loss on early extinguishment of debt decreased by 66 Table of Contents $9.4 million primarily due to the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.0 $ 4.5 $ (0.5 ) (11.1 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 (53.0 ) (100.0 )% Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 20.2 38.7 (18.5 ) (47.8 )% Total discontinued operations $ 24.2 $ 96.2 $ (72.0 ) (74.8 )% During the year ended December 31, 2010, the company did not sell any value added conversion development projects. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 (9.8 ) (100.0 )% Total preferred stock/units $ (15.8 ) $ (6.0 ) $ (9.8 ) 163.3 % No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2010. On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Rental revenues Same store $ 497.4 $ 560.8 $ (63.4 ) (11.3 )% Development 22.5 11.7 10.8 92.3 % Other industrial 60.5 36.7 23.8 64.9 % Total rental revenues 580.4 609.2 (28.8 ) (4.7 )% Private capital revenues 38.0 68.5 (30.5 ) (44.5 )% Total revenues $ 618.4 $ 677.7 $ (59.3 ) (8.8 )% 67 Table of Contents Same store rental revenues decreased $63.4 million in 2009 from the prior year due primarily to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store rental revenues for the year ended 2008 would have been $522.7 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008, rather than July 1, 2008. The decrease of $25.3 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to decreased occupancy during 2009. The increase in rental revenues from development of $10.8 million is primarily due to further lease up of the development pool and increased occupancy at several of the companys development projects. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from development projects that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in these revenues of $23.8 million primarily reflects further lease up of the development pool and an increase in the number of projects that reached these levels of operation in 2009. The decrease in private capital revenues of $30.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive and acquisition fees recognized in 2009 from fees recognized in the prior year. In 2009, the company recognized incentive distributions from AMB DFS Fund I, LLC and asset management fees received from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and in 2008, the company received incentive distributions from AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and in connection with the sale of the partnership interests in AMB/Erie, L.P., including its final real estate asset to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. For the Years Ended Ended December 31, Costs and Expenses 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Property operating costs: Rental expenses $ 107.2 $ 98.0 $ 9.2 9.4 % Real estate taxes 76.0 75.9 0.1 0.1 % Total property operating costs $ 183.2 $ 173.9 $ 9.3 5.3 % Property operating costs: Same store $ 151.2 $ 157.2 $ (6.0 ) (3.8 )% Development 10.3 2.1 8.2 390.5 % Other industrial 21.7 14.6 7.1 48.6 % Total property operating costs 183.2 173.9 9.3 5.3 % Depreciation and amortization 175.3 161.0 14.3 8.9 % General and administrative 115.3 143.9 (28.6 ) (19.9 )% Restructuring charges 6.4 12.3 (5.9 ) (48.0 )% Fund costs 1.1 1.1 % Real estate impairment losses 172.1 182.9 (10.8 ) (5.9 )% Other expenses 8.7 0.5 8.2 1,640.0 % Total costs and expenses $ 662.1 $ 675.6 $ (13.5 ) (2.0 )% Same store properties operating expenses decreased $6.0 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Same store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 would have been $147.6 million if the interests in AMB Partners II, L.P. had been contributed as of January 1, 2008. The increase of $3.6 million, excluding the effect of the contribution of interests in AMB Partners II, L.P., was primarily due to increased real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses and ground rent expenses. The increase in development operating costs of $8.2 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and ground rent expenses due to higher occupancy in certain development projects. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to unconsolidated co investment ventures, which are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation but are not yet part of 68 Table of Contents the same store operating pool of properties. The increase in other industrial operating costs of $7.1 million was primarily due to an increase in real estate taxes as well as increased utilities, repairs and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses, roads and grounds expenses and administrative expenses due to an increase in the number of projects that have reached these levels of operation. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $14.3 million was primarily due to $15.5 million additional depreciation expense recorded upon reclassification of assets from properties held for contribution to investments in real estate in 2009 and asset stabilizations, partially offset by the full depreciation expense taken on an asset demolition in the third quarter of 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses of $28.6 million in 2009 was primarily due to a personnel and cost reduction plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008. During 2009, the company recorded $6.4 million in restructuring charges, as compared to $12.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the further implementation of the cost reduction plan, which included a reduction in global headcount, office closure costs and the termination of certain contractual obligations. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the companys results of operations during 2009 and 2008. The increase in other expenses of $8.2 million was primarily due to changes in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan in 2009 as compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in dead deal costs from amounts recognized in 2008. For the Years Ended December 31, Other Income and (Expenses) 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Development profits, net of taxes $ 35.9 $ 81.1 $ (45.2 ) (55.7 )% Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net 20.0 (20.0 ) (100.0 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net 11.3 17.1 (5.8 ) (33.9 )% Other income (expense) 3.5 (3.1 ) 6.6 212.9 % Interest expense, including amortization (118.9 ) (134.3 ) (15.4 ) (11.5 )% Loss on early extinguishment of debt (12.3 ) (0.8 ) 11.5 1,437.5 % Total other income and (expenses), net $ (80.5 ) $ (20.0 ) $ (60.5 ) (302.5 )% Development profits represent gains from the sale or contribution of development projects, including land. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $6.1 million as a result of the sale of development projects, aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet for an aggregate sales price of $149.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $7.2 million primarily as a result of the sale of development projects to third parties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet and land parcels, aggregating approximately 95 acres, for an aggregate sales price of $26.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized development profits of approximately $29.8 million, as a result of the contribution of three completed development projects, aggregating approximately 1.4 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized development profits of approximately $73.9 million, as a result of the contribution of 11 completed development projects, aggregating approximately 5.2 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS and AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, into AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the company recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the companys interest in the contributed property acquired by the third party investors for cash. The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures of $5.8 million for 2009 as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower occupancy in 2009 and impairment losses recognized on the companys unconsolidated assets under management, partially offset by the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. (previously, 69 Table of Contents a consolidated co investment venture) to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an unconsolidated co investment venture, on July 1, 2008. Other income (expense) increased $6.6 million in 2009 from the prior year primarily due to a change in the assets and liabilities associated with the companys non qualified deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a decrease in bank interest income due to lower cash balances and interest rates in 2009 and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate losses. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a loss on currency remeasurement of approximately $7.2 million, compared to a loss of approximately $5.7 million in the same period of 2008. Interest expense decreased $15.4 million primarily due to decreased borrowings as well as a decrease in interest rates in 2009. Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased by $11.5 million primarily due to early repayments of secured debt and the completion of the repurchase of bonds in connection with the companys tender offers in 2009. For the Years Ended December 31, Discontinued Operations 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Income attributable to discontinued operations $ 4.5 $ 8.6 $ (4.1 ) (47.7 )% Development profits, net of taxes 53.0 53.0 100.0 % Gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes 38.7 2.6 36.1 1,388.5 % Total discontinued operations $ 96.2 $ 11.2 $ 85.0 758.9 % The decrease in income attributable to discontinued operations of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to higher real estate impairment losses recognized in 2009 on properties sold through December 31, 2010 or held for sale as of December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold value added conversion development projects and land parcels aggregating approximately 0.2 million square feet and 21 land acres for a sale price of $143.9 million, with a resulting net gain of $53.0 million. No value added conversion development projects were sold during 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the company sold industrial operating properties aggregating approximately 2.3 million square feet for a sale price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for a price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for a sale price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and the company recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which was disposed of on December 31, 2007. For the Years Ended December 31, Preferred Stock/Units 2009 2008 $ Change % Change Preferred stock dividends/unit distributions $ (15.8 ) $ (15.8 ) $ % Preferred stock unit redemption discount 9.8 9.8 100.0 % Total preferred stock/units $ (6.0 ) $ (15.8 ) $ 9.8 (62.0 )% On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million and contributed the series D preferred units to the operating partnership. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. No repurchases of units were made during the year ended December 31, 2008. 70 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE PARENT COMPANY In this Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Parent Company section, the parent company refers only to AMB Property Corporation and not to any of its subsidiaries. The parent companys business is operated primarily through the operating partnership. The parent company issues public equity from time to time, but does not otherwise conduct any business or generate any capital itself. The parent company itself does not hold any indebtedness, and its only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the operating partnership. The parent companys principal funding requirement is the payment of dividends on its common and preferred stock. The parent companys principal source of funding for its dividend payments is distributions it receives from the operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 1.8% common limited partnership interests are owned by non affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the parent company. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company owned all of the preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership. As the sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for the operating partnerships day to day management and control. The parent company causes the operating partnership to distribute all, or such portion as the parent company may in its discretion determine, of its available cash in the manner provided in the operating partnerships partnership agreement. Generally, if distributions are made, distributions are paid in the following order of priority: first, to satisfy any prior distribution shortfall to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; second, to the parent company as the holder of preferred units; and third, to the holders of common units of the operating partnership, including the parent company, in accordance with the rights of each such class. As general partner with control of the operating partnership, the parent company consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the parent company does not have significant assets other than its investment in the operating partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the parent company and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements. However, all debt is held directly or indirectly at the operating partnership level, and the parent company has guaranteed some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt as discussed below. As the parent company consolidates the operating partnership, the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership should be read in conjunction with this section to understand the liquidity and capital resources of the company on a consolidated basis and how the company is operated as a whole. Capital Resources of the Parent Company Distributions from the operating partnership are the parent companys principal source of capital. The parent company receives proceeds from equity issuances from time to time, but is required by the operating partnerships partnership agreement to contribute the proceeds from its equity issuances to the operating partnership in exchange for partnership units of the operating partnership. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership may use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Common and Preferred Equity The parent company has authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2010: 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred stock, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred stock, all of which are outstanding. 71 Table of Contents In September 2010, the parent companys board of directors approved a two year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of the parent companys common stock. The parent company has not repurchased any shares of its common stock under this program. Market Equity as of December 31, 2010 Shares/Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common stock 168,736,081 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,350,621 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,777,824 $ 5,447,075 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per share/unit (2) Dollars, in thousands (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Dividend Liquidation Redemption/ Security Rate Preference Callable Date Series L preferred stock 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred stock 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred stock 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred stock 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the parent company represent the common limited partnership interests in the operating partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010, and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the parent company. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the parent company presently intends over the long term to operate with a parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization ratio or parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the parent company is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. It is also exploring the potential sale of industrial operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of parent companys share of total market capitalization, market equity, parent companys share of total debt and parent companys share of total assets.) The parent company typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% pursuant to its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the parent companys and operating partnerships 72 Table of Contents organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that either entity may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder or unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render the parent company or the operating partnership unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Parent companys share of total debt to parent companys share of total assets(1) 43.0% Parent companys share of total debt plus preferred to parent companys share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) Although the parent company does not hold any indebtedness itself, the parent companys total debt reflects the consolidation of the operating partnerships total debt for financial reporting purposes. The parent companys definition of total market capitalization for the parent company is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of parent companys share of total market capitalization is the parent companys share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The definition of market equity is the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the parent company and common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Parent companys share of total debt is the parent companys pro rata portion of the total debt based on the parent companys percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Parent companys share of total assets is the parent companys pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the parent companys share of total assets was approximately $9.3 billion. The parent company believes that share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze the parent companys leverage and to compare the parent companys leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the parent companys debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Parent companys share of total debt is not intended to reflect the parent companys actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of parent companys share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization in the section below entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership. Liquidity of the Parent Company The liquidity of the parent company is dependent on the operating partnerships ability to make sufficient distributions to the parent company. The primary cash requirement of the parent company is its payment of dividends to its stockholders. The parent company also guarantees some of the operating partnerships secured and unsecured debt described in the Debt guarantees section below. If the operating partnership fails to fulfill its debt requirements, which trigger parent guarantee obligations, then the parent company will be required to fulfill its cash payment commitments under such guarantees. The parent company believes the operating partnerships sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to make its distribution payments to the parent company and, in turn, for the parent company to make its dividend payments to its stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs, including its ability to make distribution payments to the parent company. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships ability to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of the parent companys stock. 73 Table of Contents Should the parent company face a situation in which the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash available through its operations to continue operating its business as usual (including making its distributions to the parent company), the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase the operating partnerships liquidity. Such alternatives, which would be done through the operating partnership, may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties and decreasing the operating partnerships cash distribution to the parent company. Other alternatives are for the parent company to pay some or all of its dividends in stock rather than cash or issuing its equity in public or private transactions whether or not at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. If the operating partnership is unable to obtain new financing or refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay its distributions to the parent company, which will have, as a result, insufficient funds to pay cash dividends to the parent companys stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the operating partnerships interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense of the operating partnership would adversely affect the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. The operating partnership may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for the parent companys equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the parent companys liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. While historically the parent company has satisfied this distribution requirement by making cash distributions to its stockholders, it may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, the parent companys own stock. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other companies whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The parent company may need to continue to raise capital in the equity markets to fund the operating partnerships working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. As circumstances warrant, the parent company may issue equity securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The parent company would contribute any such proceeds to the operating partnership, which would then use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in existing or newly created joint ventures or for general corporate purposes. Dividends. The following table sets forth the parent companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property Corporation Common stock $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property Corporation Series L preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property Corporation Series M preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property Corporation Series O preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property Corporation Series P preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 The parent company anticipates that the operating partnership will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings (including the issuance of equity by the parent company) and the divestiture of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to issue such securities on favorable terms or at all. The parent companys or the operating partnerships inability to issue securities on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and its ability to pay distributions to the parent company, which will, in turn, adversely affect the market price of the parent companys stock and the parent companys ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. 74 Table of Contents Cash flows generated by the operating partnership were sufficient to cover the operating partnerships distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which were, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by operating activities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in the parent companys Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay dividends on the parent companys common stock and preferred stock, distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The parent company uses proceeds from the operating partnership included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund dividends and distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities, if any. The following table sets forth the summary of the parent companys dividends and the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Dividends and Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Dividends paid to common and preferred stockholders(1) (193,428 ) (137,108 ) (220,476 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (13,374 ) (21,178 ) (66,007 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over dividends and distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over dividends and distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 (1) Partnership unit distributions paid to the parent company by the operating partnership are, in turn, paid by the parent company as dividends to its stockholders. Debt guarantees. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations with respect to its unsecured senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. The indenture for the senior debt securities contains limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its other debt obligations related to the following two facilities. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. These term loans contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under its $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, 75 Table of Contents which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. This facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, under its credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. This credit facility has an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. As of December 31, 2010, this facility had a balance of $139.5 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company and the operating partnership guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, entered into this credit facility, which has an option to extend the maturity date to July 2012. As of December 31, 2010, this facility, maturing in July 2011, had a balance of $129.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%. The credit agreements related to the above facilities contain limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations of the parent company. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include claims for indemnification by officers and directors and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP Balance Sheet Strategy. In general, the operating partnership uses unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, common and preferred equity (issued by the parent company, the operating partnership and their subsidiaries, as applicable) to capitalize its wholly owned assets. Over time, the operating partnership plans to retire non recourse, secured debt encumbering its wholly owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes where practicable. In managing the co investment ventures, in general, the operating partnership uses non recourse, secured debt to capitalize its co investment ventures. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal sources of working capital and funding for debt service, development, acquisitions, expansion and renovation of properties will include: cash on hand and cash flow from operations; borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities; other forms of secured or unsecured financing; assumption of debt related to acquired properties; proceeds from limited partnership unit offerings (including issuances of limited partnership units by the operating partnerships subsidiaries); proceeds from debt securities offerings by the operating partnership; proceeds from equity offerings by the parent company; net proceeds from divestitures of properties; private capital from co investment partners; 76 Table of Contents net proceeds from contributions of properties and completed development projects to its co investment ventures; and net proceeds from the sales of development projects, value added conversion projects and land to third parties. The operating partnership currently expects that its principal funding requirements will include: debt service; distributions on outstanding common, preferred and general partnership units; working capital; acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real estate related entities or platforms; investments in existing or newly formed joint ventures; and development, expansion and renovation of properties. Capital Resources of the Operating Partnership The operating partnership believes its sources of working capital, specifically its cash flow from operations, and borrowings available under its unsecured credit facilities, are adequate for it to meet its current liquidity requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the operating partnerships sources of capital will continue to be available at all or in amounts sufficient to meet its needs. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect the operating partnerships financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. For the parent company to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust, it must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income. As a result of this distribution requirement, the operating partnership cannot rely on retained earnings to fund its on going operations to the same extent that other corporations whose parent companies are not real estate investment trusts can. The operating partnership may need to continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund its working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, cash provided by operating activities was $252.8 million as compared to $243.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to changes in the operating partnerships accounts receivable and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash used in investing activities was $586.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $84.1 million for the same period in 2009. This change is primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities and an increase in additions to interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, partially offset by a decrease in additions to land, buildings, development costs, building improvements and lease costs. Cash provided by financing activities was $329.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $298.4 million for the same period in 2009. This change is due primarily to a decrease in net payments on unsecured credit facilities and an increase in net proceeds from issuance of senior debt, net of payments. This activity was partially offset by a decrease in the issuance of common units, an increase in distributions paid and an increase in net payments on other debt. Partners Capital. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding 168,506,670 common general partnership units; 2,058,730 common limited partnership units; 2,000,000 6.50% series L cumulative redeemable preferred units; 2,300,000 6.75% series M cumulative redeemable preferred units; 3,000,000 7.00% series O cumulative redeemable preferred units; and 2,000,000 6.85% series P cumulative redeemable preferred units. Development Completions. Development completions are generally defined as properties that are 90% occupied or pre leased, or that have been substantially complete for at least 12 months. Development completions 77 Table of Contents on a consolidated basis, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Placed in Operations: Number of projects 11 Square feet 3,685,677 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 264,697 Sold: Number of projects 3 Square feet 774,663 Estimated investment(1) $ $ 62,695 Available for Sale or Contribution: Number of projects 13 24 Square feet 4,504,551 6,669,855 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 567,634 Total: Number of projects 13 38 Square feet 4,504,551 11,130,195 Estimated investment(1) $ 376,890 $ 895,026 (1) Estimated investment is before the impact of cumulative real estate impairment losses. Development sales to third parties during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010(1) 2009 2008 Square feet 485,022 1,977,185 73,927 Gross sales price $ 36,372 $ 293,846 $ 26,116 Net proceeds $ 35,089 $ 254,888 $ 23,557 Development profits, net of taxes $ 6,910 $ 59,068 $ 7,235 (1) Includes the installment sale of 0.2 million square feet for $12.5 million gross sales price ($12.0 million net proceeds) with development gains of $3.9 million recognized in the year ended December 31, 2010, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 and completed in the first quarter of 2010. 78 Table of Contents Development contributions to co investment ventures during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Number of projects contributed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 2 4 Square Feet 428,180 2,723,003 Number of projects contributed to AMB SGP Mexico, LLC 3 Square Feet 1,421,043 Number of projects contributed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 2 2 Square Feet 179,693 164,574 Number of projects contributed to AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 1 2 Square Feet 981,162 891,596 Total number of contributed development assets 2 3 11 Total square feet 179,693 1,409,342 5,200,216 Gross contribution price $ 22,391 $ 217,293 $ 508,748 Net proceeds $ 22,391 $ 56,822 $ 394,025 Development (losses) profits, net of taxes $ (171 ) $ 29,808 $ 73,849 Gains from Sale or Contribution of Real Estate Interests, Net. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the operating partnership did not contribute any industrial operating properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership contributed one industrial operating property for approximately $66.2 million, aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet, to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. As a result, the operating partnership recognized a gain of $20.0 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed property acquired by third party investors for cash. These gains are presented in gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net, in the consolidated statements of operations. Properties Held for Sale or Contribution, Net. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for sale ten properties with an aggregate net book value of $55.9 million. These properties either are not in the operating partnerships core markets, do not meet its current investment objectives, or are included as part of its development for sale or value added conversion programs. The sales of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for sale three properties with an aggregate net book value of $13.9 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures eight properties with an aggregate net book value of $186.2 million, which, when contributed, will reduce its average ownership interest in these projects from approximately 90% to an expected range of less than 40%. As of December 31, 2009, the operating partnership held for contribution to co investment ventures 11 properties with an aggregate net book value of $200.5 million. As of December 31, 2010, no properties were reclassified from held for sale or held for contribution to investments in real estate as a result of the change in managements intent to hold these assets. In accordance with the operating partnerships policies of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership recognized $1.2 million of additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation from the reclassification of assets from properties held for sale and contribution to investments in real estate. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized additional depreciation expense and related accumulated depreciation of $15.5 million as a result of similar reclassifications, as well as impairment charges of $55.8 million on real estate assets held for sale or contribution for which it was determined that the carrying value was greater than the estimated fair value. 79 Table of Contents Gains from Sale of Real Estate Interests, Net of Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership sold approximately 1.0 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $58.1 million, with a resulting gain of $19.8 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the company recognized a deferred gain of $0.4 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.7 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $36.4 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership sold approximately 2.3 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $151.6 million, with a resulting gain of $37.2 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the operating partnership recognized a deferred gain of $1.6 million on the divestiture of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate sales price of $17.5 million, which was deferred as part of the contribution of AMB Partners II, L.P. to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the operating partnership sold approximately 0.1 million square feet of industrial operating properties for an aggregate sales price of $3.6 million, with a resulting gain of $1.0 million, and it recognized a deferred gain of approximately $1.4 million on the sale of industrial operating properties, aggregating approximately 0.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $3.5 million, which were disposed of on December 31, 2007. These gains are presented in gains from sale of real estate interests, net of taxes, as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Co investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, which are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide it with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. The operating partnership holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. Third party equity interests in the consolidated co investment ventures are reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership owned approximately 80.8 million square feet of its properties (50.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through its consolidated and unconsolidated co investment ventures. The operating partnership may make additional investments through these co investment ventures or new co investment ventures in the future and presently plans to do so. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. On August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. Estimated investment capacity in AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, including the total equity contributions of $315.3 million, is $600 million. 80 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Original Ownership Planned Consolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Capitalization(1) AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. 24 % $ 490,000 AMB SGP, L.P. Industrial JV Pte. Ltd. 50 % $ 420,000 AMB AMS, L.P. PMT, SPW and TNO 39 % $ 228,000 (1) Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and all partners expected equity contributions. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant consolidated co investment ventures. The following table summarizes the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Approximate Operating Estimated Ownership Partnerships Net Investment Unconsolidated Co investment Venture Co investment Venture Partner Percentage Equity Investment Capacity(1) AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P.(2) AMB U.S. Logistics REIT, Inc. 35 % $ 409,377 $ 190,000 (3) AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS Institutional investors 38 % $ 172,903 $ 300,000 (3) AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Institutional investors 20 % $ 82,482 $ AMB SGP Mexico, LLC Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd. 22 % $ 20,646 $ AMB DFS Fund I, LLC Strategic Realty Ventures, LLC 15 % $ 14,426 $ (4) AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P. Major university endowment 25 % $ 32,910 $ 390,000 (1) AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico has additional investment capacity of $600 million as of December 31, 2010. (2) Effective January 1, 2010, the name of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. was changed to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. Effective October 29, 2010, the name of AMB Europe Fund I, FCP FIS was changed to AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. (3) The investment capacity of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, as open ended funds, is not limited. Investment capacity is estimated based on the cash of the fund and additional leverage and may change. (4) The investment period for AMB DFS Fund I, LLC ended in June 2009, and, as of December 31, 2010, the remaining estimated investment is $6.6 million to complete the existing development assets held by the fund. In addition to the equity investments shown above, the operating partnership, through its investment in AMB Property Mexico, held equity interests in various other unconsolidated ventures totaling approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the company entered into a mortgage debt investment joint venture with a third party partner and held an equity interest of $86.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Please see Part I, Item 1, Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the operating partnerships significant unconsolidated co investment ventures. Debt. In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, the operating partnership presently intends over the long term to operate with an operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization ratio or operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets of approximately 45% or less. In order to operate at this targeted ratio over the long term, the operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize 81 Table of Contents its development assets through possible contribution to funds where capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets ratio was 43.0%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for the definitions of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization, market capital, operating partnerships share of total debt and operating partnerships share of total assets.) The operating partnership typically finances its co investment ventures with secured debt at a loan to value ratio of 50 65% per its co investment venture agreements. Additionally, the operating partnership currently intends to manage its capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on its senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, the operating partnerships organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that it may incur. Accordingly, management could alter or eliminate these policies without unitholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render it unable to comply with these policies. For example, decreases in the market price of the parent companys common stock have caused an increase in the ratio of operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount of the operating partnerships secured debt was $1.0 billion, excluding $0.1 million of unamortized net premiums. Of the $1.0 billion of secured debt, $731.2 million, excluding unamortized discounts, is secured by properties in the operating partnerships joint ventures. Such secured debt is generally non recourse and, as of December 31, 2010, bore interest at rates varying from 1.0% to 8.3% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 4.3%) and had final maturity dates ranging from July 2011 to November 2022. As of December 31, 2010, $695.7 million of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1%), while the remaining $266.6 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.3%). As of December 31, 2010, $586.8 million of the secured debt before unamortized premiums was held by co investment ventures, including the AMB SGP, L.P. loan agreement discussed below. On February 14, 2007, seven subsidiaries of AMB SGP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which is a subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into a loan agreement for a $305.0 million secured financing. On the same day, pursuant to the loan agreement, the same seven subsidiaries delivered four promissory notes to the two lenders, each of which mature in March 2012. One note has a principal of $160.0 million and an interest rate that is fixed at 5.29%. The second note has an initial principal borrowing of $40.0 million with a variable interest rate of 81.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The third note has an initial principal borrowing of $84.0 million and a fixed interest rate of 5.90%. The fourth note has an initial principal borrowing of $21.0 million and bears interest at a variable rate of 135.0 basis points above the one month LIBOR rate. The aggregate principal amount outstanding under this loan agreement as of December 31, 2010 was $289.1 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.7 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 5.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. In August 2010 and November 2010, the operating partnership issued senior unsecured notes of $300.0 million at 4.50% due 2017 and $175.0 million at 4.00% due 2018, respectively. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. The covenants contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $414.0 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and had an average term of 3.3 years. Other debt includes a $70.0 million credit facility obtained on August 24, 2007 by AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, which had a $54.3 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2010. The remaining $359.7 million outstanding in other debt, using the exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010, is related to the term loans discussed below. In November 2010, the operating partnership paid off the outstanding Euro tranche balance of its original $425.0 million multi currency term loan, which has a maturity of October 2012. As of December 31, 2010, only the Japanese Yen tranche of the term loan had an outstanding balance, which was approximately $153.9 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate in effect on that date, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. Additionally, 82 Table of Contents in November 2010, the operating partnership entered into a 153.7 million Euro senior unsecured term loan, maturing in November 2015. Using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, the term loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $205.8 million in U.S. dollars, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%. The parent company guarantees the operating partnerships obligations with respect to certain of its unsecured debt. These unsecured credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its unsecured credit facilities at December 31, 2010. If the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then its cash flow may be insufficient to pay cash distributions to the operating partnerships unitholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership may from time to time seek to retire or purchase its outstanding debt through cash purchases and or exchanges for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, its liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. A downgrade in the operating partnerships credit ratings on its long term debt could adversely affect its business and financial condition. A decrease in the operating partnerships credit ratings could cause a negative reaction in the public and private markets for the parent companys and the operating partnerships securities, increase difficulty in accessing optimally priced financing and damage public perception of the companys business. Also, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under the operating partnerships unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans will increase. In addition, if the long term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, the operating partnership may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or Japanese Yen, as applicable. However, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect the operating partnerships ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. Also, the operating partnerships lenders will not be able to terminate its credit facilities or certain term loans in the event that its credit rating falls below investment grade status. None of the operating partnerships credit facilities contain covenants regarding the parent companys stock price or market capitalization, thus a decrease in the parent companys stock price is not expected to impact the operating partnerships ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit. While the operating partnership currently does not expect its long term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that the ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities and the loss of the operating partnerships ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, based on publicly available information regarding its lenders, the operating partnership currently does not expect to lose borrowing capacity under its existing lines of credit as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among its lenders. The operating partnerships access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. If the operating partnership does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the operating partnerships business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The operating partnerships primary financial covenants with respect to its credit facilities generally relate to fixed charge or debt service coverage, liabilities to asset value, debt to asset value and unencumbered cash flow. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under its credit 83 Table of Contents facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that if the financial markets and economic conditions worsen, the operating partnership will be able to continue to comply with its financial covenants. Certain of the operating partnerships third party indebtedness is held by its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that a joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the operating partnerships joint venture agreements or the third party debt agreements, the operating partnership may elect to pay its joint venture partners portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint ventures debt obligations. In either case, the operating partnership would lose income and asset value on the property. In addition, increases in the cost of credit and difficulty in accessing the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the operating partnerships properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co investment ventures. If it is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the operating partnership will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to its common unitholders and its funds from operations will decrease. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the operating partnerships customers may adversely impact the operating partnerships business and financial condition such as occupancy levels of its properties. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the operating partnerships co investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the operating partnerships net asset value. While the operating partnership believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities to continue its business operations as usual in the near term, turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. If these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the operating partnerships ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. In the event that it does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the operating partnership may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting the operating partnership of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet its strategic objectives in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling the operating partnerships debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with the operating partnerships customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; entering into lease renewals with the operating partnerships existing customers with a decrease in rental rates at turnover or on suboptimal terms; or paying a portion of the parent companys dividends in stock rather than cash. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase its liquidity will be available to the operating partnership. Additionally, taking such measures to increase its liquidity may adversely affect the operating partnerships business, results of operations and financial condition. As circumstances warrant, the operating partnership may issue debt securities from time to time on an opportunistic basis, dependent upon market conditions and available pricing. The operating partnership would use the proceeds to repay debt, including borrowings under its lines of credit, to make acquisitions of properties, portfolios of properties or U.S. or foreign property owning or real estate related entities or platforms, to invest in newly formed or existing joint ventures, or for general corporate purposes. Credit Facilities. The operating partnership has a $600.0 million (includes Euro, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit facility. In November 2010, the operating partnership refinanced its $550.0 million multi currency facility, which was set to mature in June 2011, increasing the facility by $50.0 million and extending the maturity to March 2014. The parent company is a guarantor of the operating partnerships obligations under the credit facility. The facility can be increased to up to $800.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 84 Table of Contents 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the operating partnerships long term debt rating, with an annual facility fee of 35.0 basis points. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request money market loans and borrowings in Euros, Yen or British pounds sterling. The four year credit facility includes a multi currency component, under which up to $600.0 million can be drawn in Euros, Yen, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars. The operating partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, there was no outstanding balance on this credit facility, and the remaining amount available was $589.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $10.4 million, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, has a Yen denominated unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing limit of 45.0 billion Yen, previously 55.0 billion prior to the operating partnerships early renewal in December 2010, which, using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010, equaled approximately $554.5 million U.S. dollars and bore a weighted average interest rate of 1.97%. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. Additionally, upon renewal, the credit facility maturity was extended from June 2011 to March 2014. The rate on the borrowings is generally Yen LIBOR plus a margin, which was 185.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships long term debt, and was 35.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010, was $139.5 million, and the remaining amount available was $415.0 million. The operating partnership and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, each acting as a borrower, with the parent company and the operating partnership as guarantors, have a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The parent company, along with the operating partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the operating partnership that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to this credit facility. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility. The credit facility includes a multi currency component under which up to $500.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. The line, which matures in July 2011, carries a one year extension option, which the operating partnership may exercise at its sole option so long as the operating partnerships long term debt rating is investment grade, among other things. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, which was 60.0 basis points as of December 31, 2010, based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnerships senior unsecured long term debt. If the operating partnerships long term debt ratings fall below investment grade, it will be unable to request borrowings in any currency other than U.S. dollars. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2010, was approximately $129.4 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%, and the remaining amount available was $370.6 million. The above credit facilities contain affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants of the operating partnership, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The operating partnership was in compliance with its financial covenants under each of these credit agreements as of December 31, 2010. 85 Table of Contents The tables below summarize the operating partnerships debt maturities, principal payments and capitalization and reconcile operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Wholly Owned Unsecured Total Consolidated Total Unconsolidated AMBs Share of Senior Credit Other Secured Wholly Owned Joint Consolidated Joint Total Total Debt Facilities(1) Debt Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Venture Debt Debt Debt 2011 $ 69,000 $ 129,443 $ $ 15,499 $ 213,942 $ 139,410 $ 353,352 $ 414,907 $ 768,259 $ 395,844 2012 153,903 29,636 183,539 468,361 651,900 434,468 1,086,368 478,649 2013 293,897 23,366 317,263 103,568 420,831 732,130 1,152,961 547,092 2014 139,490 4,904 144,394 8,809 153,203 556,096 709,299 357,254 2015 112,491 205,773 7,908 326,172 16,943 343,115 464,706 807,821 504,984 2016 250,000 81,936 331,936 15,499 347,435 170,709 518,144 397,384 2017 300,000 67,913 367,913 490 368,403 92,414 460,817 388,927 2018 300,000 300,000 595 300,595 96,694 397,289 334,094 2019 250,000 250,000 28,713 278,713 11,778 290,491 270,707 2020 123,213 123,213 645 123,858 211,643 335,501 197,459 Thereafter 2,450 2,450 377,455 379,905 133,164 Subtotal $ 1,698,601 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,162 $ 2,558,372 $ 785,483 $ 3,343,855 $ 3,563,000 $ 6,906,855 $ 4,005,558 Unamortized net (discounts) premiums (12,645 ) 43 (12,602 ) 46 (12,556 ) (4,580 ) (17,136 ) (15,995 ) Subtotal $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 785,529 $ 3,331,299 $ 3,558,420 $ 6,889,719 $ 3,989,563 Joint venture partners share of debt (451,335 ) (451,335 ) (2,448,821 ) (2,900,156 ) Operating partnerships share of total debt(2) $ 1,685,956 $ 268,933 $ 359,676 $ 231,205 $ 2,545,770 $ 334,194 $ 2,879,964 $ 1,109,599 $ 3,989,563 $ 3,989,563 Weighted average interest rate 5.6 % 1.7 % 3.0 % 2.9 % 4.6 % 4.8 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % Weighted average maturity (years) 6.1 1.9 3.6 4.9 5.2 1.9 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.8 (1) Represents three credit facilities with total capacity of approximately $1.7 billion. Includes $37.0 million in U.S. dollar borrowings and $139.5 million, $70.1 million, and $22.3 million in Yen, Canadian dollar and Singapore dollar based borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2010, respectively, translated to U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010. (2) Operating partnerships share of total debt represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on the operating partnerships percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the co investment ventures. The above table reconciles operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure. 86 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had debt maturing in 2011 through 2014, assuming extension options are exercised, as follows (dollars in thousands): After Extension Options(1)(2) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wholly owned debt Unsecured Senior Debt $ 69,000 $ $ 293,897 $ Credit Facilities 129,443 Other Debt 153,903 Operating Partnership Secured Debt 14,300 28,068 22,090 Subtotal 83,300 311,414 315,987 Consolidated Joint Ventures AMB AMS, L.P. 39,273 AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. 3,850 199,972 4,590 AMB SGP, L.P. 38,176 289,125 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 53,311 30,972 20,355 4,344 Subtotal 91,487 323,947 259,600 8,934 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures AMB SGP Mexico 58,825 163,769 AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. 151,511 212,617 493,566 AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 412,234 AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 30,310 29,397 181,457 117,995 Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures 31,081 57,299 30,861 Subtotal 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total Consolidated 174,787 635,361 575,587 8,934 Total Unconsolidated 271,727 405,783 732,322 561,090 Total $ 446,514 $ 1,041,144 $ 1,307,909 $ 570,024 Total Operating Partnerships Share(3) $ 201,771 $ 563,687 $ 580,546 $ 215,449 (1) Excludes scheduled principal amortization of debt maturing in years subsequent to 2014, as well as debt premiums and discounts. (2) Subject to certain conditions. (3) Total operating partnerships share represents the operating partnerships pro rata portion of total debt maturing in 2011 through 2014 based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Market Capital as of December 31, 2010 Units Market Market Security Outstanding Price(1) Value(2) Common general partnership units 168,506,670 (5) $ 31.71 $ 5,343,347 Common limited partnership units(3) 3,041,743 $ 31.71 96,454 Total 171,548,413 $ 5,439,801 Total options outstanding 8,694,938 Dilutive effect of stock options(4) (1) Dollars, per unit. 87 Table of Contents (2) Assumes that the operating partnerships common partnership units are exchanged for the parent companys common stock on a one for one basis because there is no public market for the operating partnerships units. Dollars, in thousands. (3) Includes class B common limited partnership units issued by AMB Property II, L.P. (4) Computed using the treasury stock method and an average share price for the parent companys common stock of $29.23 for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. All stock options were anti dilutive as of December 31, 2010. (5) Includes 1,202,122 shares of unvested restricted stock. Preferred units as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands) Distribution Liquidation Redemption/Callable Security Rate Preference Date Series L preferred units 6.50 % $ 50,000 June 2008 Series M preferred units 6.75 % 57,500 November 2008 Series O preferred units 7.00 % 75,000 December 2010 Series P preferred units 6.85 % 50,000 August 2011 Weighted average/total 6.80 % $ 232,500 Noncontrolling interests in the operating partnership represent limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by third party partners in joint ventures. Such joint ventures held approximately 20.9 million square feet as of December 31, 2010 and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Please see Explanatory Note on page 1 and Part I, Item 1, Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the noncontrolling interests of the operating partnership. Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2010 Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 41.3% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total market capitalization(1) 43.7% Operating partnerships share of total debt to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 43.0% Operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred to operating partnerships share of total assets(1) 45.5% (1) The operating partnerships definition of total market capitalization for the operating partnership is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The definition of operating partnerships share of total market capitalization is the operating partnerships share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market capital. The operating partnerships definition of market capital is the total number of outstanding common general partnership units of the operating partnership and common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. multiplied by the closing price per share of the parent companys common stock as of December 31, 2010. The definition of preferred is preferred equity liquidation preferences. Operating partnerships share of total debt is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures holding the debt. Operating partnerships share of total assets is the operating partnerships pro rata portion of the gross book value of real estate interests plus cash and other assets. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnerships share of total assets was $9.3 billion. The operating partnership believes that operating partnerships share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the operating partnerships debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. Operating partnerships share of total debt is not intended to reflect the operating partnerships actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a reconciliation of operating partnerships share of total debt to total consolidated debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt maturities and capitalization above. 88 Table of Contents Liquidity of the Operating Partnership As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $30.0 million in restricted cash. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership increased the availability under its lines of credit by approximately $224 million while increasing its share of outstanding debt by approximately $409 million. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had $1.4 billion available for future borrowings under its three multi currency lines of credit, representing line utilization of 17%. The operating partnerships available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the United States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the operating partnership can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time, the operating partnership also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions, which was, as of December 31, 2010, approximately $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While the operating partnership monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the operating partnership has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. The following table sets forth the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable per unit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Paying Entity Security 2010 2009 2008 AMB Property, L.P. Common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property, L.P. Series L preferred units $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 AMB Property, L.P. Series M preferred units $ 1.69 $ 1.69 $ 1.69 AMB Property, L.P. Series O preferred units $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 AMB Property, L.P. Series P preferred units $ 1.71 $ 1.71 $ 1.71 AMB Property II, L.P. Class B common limited partnership units $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.56 AMB Property II, L.P. Series D preferred units(1) $ $ 2.69 $ 3.59 (1) On November 10, 2009, the parent company purchased all 1,595,337 outstanding series D preferred units of AMB Property II, L.P. in exchange for 2,880,281 shares of its common stock at a discount of $9.8 million. The operating partnership issued 2,880,281 general partnership units to the parent company in exchange for the 1,595,337 series D preferred units the parent company purchased. The operating partnership anticipates that it will be required to use proceeds from debt and equity financings and the divestitures of properties, in addition to cash from its operations, to make its distribution payments and repay its maturing debt as it comes due. However, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. The operating partnerships inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders and make payments to its noteholders. The operating partnership is currently exploring various options to monetize its development assets including contribution to funds where investment capacity is available, the formation of joint ventures and the sale of assets to third parties. The operating partnership is also exploring the potential sale of operating assets to further enhance liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that the operating partnership will choose to or be able to monetize any of its assets. Cash flows generated by the operating partnerships business were sufficient to cover its distributions for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, including its distributions to the parent company, which are, in turn, paid to the parent companys stockholders as dividends and distributions. Cash flows from the operating partnerships real estate operations and private capital businesses, which are included in Net cash provided by 89 Table of Contents operating activities in its Cash Flows from Operating Activities and cash flows from its real estate development and operations businesses which are included in Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate and securities in its Cash Flows from Investing Activities in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were sufficient to pay distributions on common and preferred limited partnership units of the operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and distributions to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The operating partnership uses proceeds from its businesses included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities (specifically, the proceeds from sales and contributions of properties as part of its real estate development and operations businesses) to fund distributions not covered by Cash Flows from Operating Activities. The following table sets forth the summary of the operating partnerships distributions paid or payable for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: For the Years Ended December 31, Summary of Distributions Paid 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 252,760 $ 243,113 $ 302,614 Distributions paid to partners (195,755 ) (139,515 ) (224,549 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including preferred units (11,047 ) (18,771 ) (61,934 ) Excess of net cash provided by operating activities over distributions paid $ 45,958 $ 84,827 $ 16,131 Net proceeds from divestiture of real estate $ 101,660 $ 482,515 $ 421,647 Excess of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from divestiture of real estate over distributions paid $ 147,618 $ 567,342 $ 437,778 Capital Commitments of the Operating Partnership Development starts, generally defined as projects where the operating partnership has obtained building permits and has begun physical construction, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 on an owned and managed basis were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Number of new development projects 4 Square feet 860,497 Estimated total investment(1) $ 68,146 $ Asia: Number of new development projects 3 Square feet 755,752 Estimated total investment(1) $ 34,718 $ Total: Number of new development projects 7 Square feet 1,616,249 Estimated total investment(1) $ 102,864 $ Total construction in progress estimated investment(1)(2) $ 170,751 $ Total construction in progress invested to date(3) $ 107,274 $ Total construction in progress remaining to invest(3)(4) $ 63,477 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, and associated carry costs. Estimated total investments are based on current 90 Table of Contents forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. (2) Excludes the impact of real estate impairment losses and includes value added conversions. (3) Amounts include capitalized interest and overhead costs, as applicable. (4) Calculated using estimated total investment before the impact of real estate impairment losses. Development Portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had eight construction in progress development projects, on an owned and managed basis, which are expected to total approximately 2.2 million square feet and have an aggregate estimated investment of $169.8 million upon completion, net of $1.0 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date. Four of these projects totaling approximately 1.2 million square feet with an aggregate estimated investment of $124.2 million were held in an unconsolidated co investment venture. Construction in progress, at December 31, 2010, included projects expected to be completed through the third quarter of 2012. On an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership had an additional 25 development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 6.8 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $700.0 million, net of $67.6 million of cumulative real estate impairment losses to date, and an aggregate net book value of $680.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the operating partnership and its development joint venture partners have funded an aggregate of $855.5 million, or 91%, of the total estimated investment before the impact of real estate investment losses and will need to fund an estimated additional $82.9 million, or 9%, in order to complete its development portfolio. In addition to its committed development pipeline, the operating partnership held a total of 2,641 acres of land for future development or sale, on an owned and managed basis, approximately 87% of which was located in the Americas. This included 254 acres that were held in unconsolidated joint ventures. The operating partnership currently estimates that these 2,641 acres of land could support approximately 47.4 million square feet of future development. Lease Commitments. The operating partnership has entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from 1 to 79 years. These buildings and improvements subject to ground leases are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2011 $ 36,278 2012 33,412 2013 30,387 2014 28,724 2015 27,357 Thereafter 414,203 Total $ 570,361 Co Investment Ventures. The operating partnership enters into co investment ventures with institutional investors, acting as the general partner or manager of such ventures. These co investment ventures are managed by the operating partnerships private capital group and provide the company with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had investments in co investment ventures with a gross book value of approximately $1.1 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures of $732.7 million and a gross book value of approximately $7.1 billion. In the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating partnership made a $200.0 million investment in AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and a $100.0 million investment in AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS. Additionally, third party investors contributed $257.0 million to AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. and $55.3 million in AMB 91 Table of Contents Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS during the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co investment ventures of up to $286.4 million pursuant to the terms of the co investment venture agreements. From time to time, the operating partnership may raise additional equity commitments for AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, most of whom invest through a private real estate investment trust, and for AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, an open ended unconsolidated co investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This could increase the operating partnerships obligation to make additional capital commitments to these ventures. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P., and the management regulations of AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS, the operating partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments until such time when its total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million or 150.0 million Euros, respectively, at which time, its obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. The operating partnership expects to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely affect its cash flow. On December 22, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Brazil Logistics Partners Fund I, L.P., a single investor co investment venture whose strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate, manage and dispose of logistics properties primarily within the companys target markets in Brazil, namely So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. This venture will invest through an equity interest in the joint venture previously established between the company and its local Brazil partner, Cyrela Commercial Properties. The initial third party equity investment will be approximately 360.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $216.9 million in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at December 31, 2010) and the joint ventures overall equity commitment is 720.0 million Brazilian Reais (approximately $433.8 million in U.S. dollars using the same exchange rate), including the companys 50 percent co investment. In addition, on August 2, 2010, the company announced the formation of AMB Mexico Fondo Logistico, a publicly traded co investment venture with a 10 year term whose investment strategy is to develop, acquire, own, operate and manage industrial distribution facilities primarily within the companys target markets in Mexico. Approximately 3.3 billion Pesos was raised from the third party investors in the venture, comprised of institutional investors in Mexico, primarily private pension plans. These contributions, net of offering costs, held partially in Pesos and U.S. dollars, totaled approximately $252.2 million using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2010. The company will contribute 20% of the total equity, or approximately $63.1 million, at full deployment, for total equity of $315.3 million available for future investments. As of December 31, 2010, no investments had been made in real estate properties within this co investment venture. Captive Insurance Company. In December 2001, the operating partnership formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the attachment point of the operating partnerships third party insurance policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the operating partnerships overall risk management program. The company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata establishes annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of the operating partnerships properties. Like premiums paid to third party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the operating partnership believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market. Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities. Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of insured coverage; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the companys predecessors prior to the companys formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the operating partnerships formation or acquisition transactions; 92 Table of Contents claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the operating partnerships properties; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and tax, legal and regulatory liabilities. Capital Deployment Land acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows, excluding value added acquisitions (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 The Americas: Acres 213 4 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 3,635,800 Investment(1) $ 47,509 $ 1,539 Europe: Acres 11 2 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 377,479 67,805 Investment(1) $ 37,384 $ 5,656 Asia: Acres 38 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 1,075,819 Investment(1) $ $ 17,032 Total: Acres 224 44 Estimated build out potential (square feet) 4,013,279 1,143,624 Investment(1) $ 84,893 $ 24,227 (1) Represents actual cost incurred to date including initial acquisition, associated closing costs, infrastructure and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. 93 Table of Contents Acquisition activity, including value added acquisitions, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Number of properties acquired by AMB U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P. 9 Square feet 2,231,719 Expected investment(1) $ 174,783 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Europe Logistics Fund, FCP FIS 5 Square feet 1,458,691 Expected investment(1) $ 131,640 $ Number of properties acquired by AMB Property, L.P. 2 Square feet 1,143,355 Expected investment(1) $ 36,886 $ Total number of properties acquired 16 Total square feet 4,833,765 Total acquisition cost $ 334,754 $ Total acquisition capital 8,555 Total expected investment(1) $ 343,309 $ (1) Includes total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases, buildings, tenant improvements and associated capitalized interest and overhead costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non U.S. dollar investments are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010 or 2009, as applicable. Overview of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): Less than More than Contractual Obligations 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Total Debt $ 353,352 $ 1,072,731 $ 496,318 $ 1,421,454 $ 3,343,855 Debt interest payments 13,630 53,374 15,698 71,778 154,480 Operating lease commitments 36,278 63,799 56,081 414,203 570,361 Tax liabilities(1) 6,290 6,290 Co investment venture capital commitments(2) 90,896 89,192 61,732 44,565 286,385 Total $ 494,156 $ 1,285,386 $ 629,829 $ 1,952,000 $ 4,361,371 (1) These amounts represent an estimate of our income tax liabilities, including an estimate of the period of settlement. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the companys tax obligations. (2) Commitments due in less than one year includes $24.6 million committed to secure a line of credit for AMB SGP Mexico, LLC, which the parent company does not expect to be called. 94 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Standby Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2010, the company had provided approximately $12.9 million in letters of credit, of which $10.4 million were provided under the operating partnerships $600.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments. Guarantees and Contribution Obligations. Excluding parent guarantees associated with debt or contribution obligations as discussed in Part I, Item 1, Notes 5, 6 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding guarantees and contribution obligations in the aggregate amount of $403.0 million as described below. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2010, the company also guaranteed $58.6 million and $83.5 million on outstanding loans on five of its consolidated joint ventures and three of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. Also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co investment ventures. These contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co investment venture of certain of its debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co investment ventures debt obligation and may be greater than the companys share of the co investment ventures debt obligation or the value of the companys share of any property securing such debt. The companys contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The companys potential obligations under these contribution agreements totaled $260.6 million as of December 31, 2010. Performance and Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $3.8 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of the companys development projects and were posted to guarantee certain property tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the property taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. Promote Interests and Other Contractual Obligations. Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the company may be obligated to make payments to certain of its joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the company. From time to time in the normal course of its business, the company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate the company to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES Funds From Operations, as adjusted (FFO, as adjusted) and Funds From Operations Per Share and Unit, as adjusted (FFOPS, as adjusted) The company believes that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers funds from operations, as adjusted (or FFO, as adjusted), FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or FFOPS, as adjusted), Core FFO, as adjusted and Core FFO per share and unit, as adjusted (or Core FFOPS, as adjusted) to be useful supplemental measures of its operating performance. The company defines FFOPS, as adjusted, as FFO, as adjusted, per fully diluted weighted average share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates FFO, as adjusted, as net income (or loss) available to common stockholders, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the companys pro rata share of FFO, as adjusted of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The company defines Core FFOPS, as adjusted as Core FFO, as adjusted per fully diluted weighted share of the parent companys common stock and operating partnership units. The company calculates Core FFO, as adjusted as FFO, as adjusted excluding 95 Table of Contents the companys share of development profits. These calculations also include adjustments for items as described below. Unless stated otherwise, the company includes the gains from development, including those from value added conversion projects, before depreciation recapture, as a component of FFO, as adjusted. The company believes gains from development should be included in FFO, as adjusted, to more completely reflect the performance of one of its lines of business. The company believes that value added conversion dispositions are in substance land sales and as such should be included in FFO, as adjusted, consistent with the real estate investment trust industrys long standing practice to include gains on the sale of land in funds from operations. However, the companys interpretation of FFO, as adjusted, or FFOPS, as adjusted, may not be consistent with the views of others in the real estate investment trust industry, who may consider it to be a divergence from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition, and may not be comparable to funds from operations or funds from operations per share and unit reported by other real estate investment trusts that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the company does. In connection with the formation of a joint venture, the company may warehouse assets that are acquired with the intent to contribute these assets to the newly formed venture. Some of the properties held for contribution may, under certain circumstances, be required to be depreciated under U.S. GAAP. If this circumstance arises, the company intends to include in its calculation of FFO, as adjusted, gains or losses related to the contribution of previously depreciated real estate to joint ventures. Although such a change, if instituted, will be a departure from the current NAREIT definition, the company believes such calculation of FFO, as adjusted, will better reflect the value created as a result of the contributions. To date, the company has not included gains or losses from the contribution of previously depreciated warehoused assets in FFO, as adjusted. In addition, the company calculates FFO, as adjusted, to exclude impairment and restructuring charges, debt extinguishment losses and the Series D preferred unit redemption discount. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted values. The restructuring charges reflected costs associated with the companys reduction in global headcount and cost structure. Debt extinguishment losses generally included the costs of repurchasing debt securities. The company repurchased certain tranches of senior unsecured debt to manage its debt maturities in response to the current financing environment, resulting in greater debt extinguishment costs. The Series D preferred unit redemption discount reflects the gain associated with the discount to liquidation preference in the Series D preferred unit redemption price less costs incurred as a result of the redemption. In 2008, the company also recognized charges to write off pursuit costs related to development projects it no longer planned to commence and to establish a reserve against tax assets associated with the reduction of its development activities. Although difficult to predict, these items may be recurring given the uncertainty of the current economic climate and its adverse effects on the real estate and financial markets. While not infrequent or unusual in nature, these items result from market fluctuations that can have inconsistent effects on the companys results of operations. The economics underlying these items reflect market and financing conditions in the short term but can obscure the companys performance and the value of the companys long term investment decisions and strategies. Management believes FFO, as adjusted, is significant and useful to both it and its investors. FFO, as adjusted, more appropriately reflects the value and strength of the companys business model and its potential performance isolated from the volatility of the current economic environment and unobscured by costs (or gains) resulting from the companys management of its financing profile in response to the tightening of the capital markets. However, in addition to the limitations of FFO Measures, as adjusted, generally discussed below, FFO, as adjusted, does not present a comprehensive measure of the companys financial condition and operating performance. This measure is a modification of the NAREIT definition of funds from operations and should not be used as an alternative to net income or cash as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the FFO Measures, as adjusted, are meaningful supplemental measures of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, 96 Table of Contents are supplemental measures of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that exclude historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income available to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP. The company believes that the use of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, combined with the required U.S. GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The company considers the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to be useful measures for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a companys real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While funds from operations and funds from operations per share are relevant and widely used measures of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, the FFO Measures, as adjusted, do not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. The FFO Measures, as adjusted, also do not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the companys real estate assets nor are the FFO Measures, as adjusted, necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the companys future cash requirements. Management compensates for the limitations of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to U.S. GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, and a reconciliation of the FFO Measures, as adjusted, to net income available to common stockholders, a U.S. GAAP measurement. 97 Table of Contents The following table reflects the calculation of FFO, as adjusted, reconciled from net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership and common stockholders of the parent company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership $ 10,122 $ (50,866 ) $ (67,233 ) Net income (loss) available to common unitholders of the operating partnership attributable to limited partners of the operating partnership (155 ) 789 782 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders of the parent company 9,967 (50,077 ) (66,451 ) Gains from sale or contribution of real estate interests, net (20,248 ) (38,718 ) (22,561 ) Depreciation and amortization: Total depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Discontinued operations depreciation 3,447 6,602 8,199 Non real estate depreciation (8,432 ) (8,593 ) (7,270 ) Adjustment for depreciation on development profits (1,546 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from consolidated joint ventures: Joint venture partners noncontrolling interests (Net loss) 6,278 11,063 32,855 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Net loss (income)) 88 (3,625 ) (5,063 ) Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) 133 2,377 2,822 FFO, as adjusted, attributable to noncontrolling interests (28,251 ) (31,571 ) (50,381 ) Adjustments to derive FFO, as adjusted, from unconsolidated joint ventures: The companys share of net (income) loss (17,372 ) (11,331 ) (17,121 ) The companys share of FFO, as adjusted 61,903 47,549 44,589 Adjustments for impairments, restructuring charges and debt extinguishment: Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 Discontinued operations real estate impairment losses 9,794 11,052 Pursuit costs and tax reserve 11,834 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,892 12,267 786 Preferred unit redemption discount (9,759 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) (182 ) (898 ) (1,186 ) Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Basic FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.10 $ 2.95 Diluted FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit $ 1.27 $ 2.09 $ 2.90 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted Funds from operations, as adjusted $ 210,187 $ 288,841 $ 298,276 Development profits, net of taxes (6,739 ) (88,876 ) (81,084 ) Joint venture partners and limited partnership unitholders share of development profits, net of taxes 61 3,308 9,041 Limited partnership unitholders noncontrolling interests (Development profits) (133 ) (2,377 ) (2,822 ) AMBs share of development profits from unconsolidated joint ventures (9 ) (271 ) (2,071 ) Allocation to participating securities(1) 49 585 645 Core Funds From Operations, as adjusted(1) $ 203,416 $ 201,210 $ 221,985 Basic Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.23 $ 1.46 $ 2.19 Diluted Core FFO, as adjusted per common share and unit (diluted) $ 1.22 $ 1.46 $ 2.16 Weighted average common shares and units: Basic 165,273,488 137,740,825 101,253,972 Diluted 166,126,934 137,903,929 102,734,827 (1) To be consistent with the companys policies of determining whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities and accounting for earnings per share, the FFO, as adjusted, per common share and unit is adjusted for FFO, as adjusted, distributed through declared dividends and 98 Table of Contents allocated to all participating securities (weighted average common shares and units outstanding and unvested restricted shares outstanding) under the two class method. Under this method, allocations were made to 1,202,122, 918,753 and 855,919 unvested restricted shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Same Store Net Operating Income (SS NOI) The company defines NOI as rental revenues, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses. NOI excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses, restructuring charges, real estate impairment losses, development profits (losses), gains (losses) from sale or contribution of real estate interests, and interest expense. The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, NOI is a useful supplemental measure calculated to help investors understand the companys operating performance, excluding the effects of gains (losses), costs and expenses which are not related to the performance of the assets. NOI is widely used by the real estate industry as a useful supplemental measure, which helps investors compare the companys operating performance with that of other companies. Real estate impairment losses have been excluded in deriving NOI because the company does not consider its impairment losses to be a property operating expense. The company believes that the exclusion of impairment losses from NOI is a common methodology used in the real estate industry. Real estate impairment losses relate to the changing values of the companys assets but do not reflect the current operating performance of the assets with respect to their revenues or expenses. The companys real estate impairment losses are non cash charges which represent the write down in the value of assets when estimated fair value over the holding period is lower than current carrying value. The impairment charges were principally a result of increases in estimated capitalization rates and deterioration in market conditions that adversely impacted underlying real estate values. Therefore, the impairment charges are not related to the current performance of the companys real estate operations and should be excluded from its calculation of NOI. The company considers SS NOI to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance for properties that are considered part of the same store pool. The company defines Cash basis SS NOI as NOI on a same store basis excluding straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The same store pool includes all properties that are owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and development stabilized after December 31, 2008. The company considers SS NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because it reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding effects of non cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year over year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SS NOI helps investors compare the operating performance of its real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the companys liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, real estate impairment losses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the companys results from operations. Further, the companys computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI. 99 Table of Contents The following table reconciles SS NOI, cash basis SS NOI and cash basis SS NOI, excluding lease termination fees from net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) $ 33,594 $ (27,960 ) $ (6,750 ) Private capital revenues (30,860 ) (38,013 ) (68,472 ) Depreciation and amortization 196,636 175,334 161,000 Real estate impairment losses 172,059 182,866 General and administrative and fund costs 125,155 116,404 145,040 Restructuring charges 4,874 6,368 12,306 Total other income and expenses 108,773 89,170 20,509 Total discontinued operations (24,242 ) (96,222 ) (11,169 ) Net operating income 413,930 397,140 435,330 Less non same store NOI (73,535 ) (47,582 ) (26,626 ) Less non cash adjustments(1) (9,045 ) (2,803 ) (5,457 ) Cash basis same store NOI $ 331,350 $ 346,755 $ 403,247 Less lease termination fees (3,059 ) (2,692 ) (5,518 ) Cash basis same store NOI, excluding lease termination fees $ 328,291 $ 344,063 $ 397,729 (1) Non cash adjustments include straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles for the same store pool only. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. The companys future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. Accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of the companys outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. The companys exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. The table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the companys fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $12.6 million as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt(1) $ 143,598 $ 544,574 $ 365,635 $ 13,713 $ 137,342 $ 1,393,341 $ 2,598,203 $ 2,672,107 Average interest rate 6.5 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.3 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.3 % n/a Variable rate debt(2) $ 209,754 $ 107,326 $ 55,196 $ 139,490 $ 205,773 $ 28,113 $ 745,652 $ 742,076 Average interest rate 2.1 % 1.8 % 2.9 % 1.7 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 2.2 % n/a Interest payments(3) $ 13,630 $ 29,611 $ 23,763 $ 3,037 $ 12,661 $ 71,778 $ 154,480 n/a (1) Represents 77.7% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (2) Represents 22.3% of all outstanding debt at December 31, 2010. (3) Represents interest expense related only to the debt balances maturing in each respective year, based upon interest rates at the balance sheet date. 100 Table of Contents If market rates of interest on the companys variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the companys variable rate debt would be $1.6 million (net of the swap) annually. As of December 31, 2010, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, based on the companys estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the companys total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) both were $3.2 billion, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, variable rate debt comprised 22.3% and 38.8%, respectively, of all the companys outstanding debt. Variable rate debt was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Financial Instruments. The company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income for any ineffectiveness. For derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). For revenues or expenses denominated in non functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The companys derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2010 were 24 interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on U.S. LIBOR and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. The company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. The following table summarizes the companys financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands): Cash Flow Hedges EUR Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 11 1.2600 % $ 7,698 $ (8 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1575 % $ 112,240 $ (189 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1710 % $ 65,473 $ (119 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 12 1.1550 % $ 28,060 $ (47 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 12 1.7300 % $ 10,910 $ (81 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4875 % $ 112,240 $ (129 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.5010 % $ 65,473 $ (85 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 13 1.4850 % $ 28,060 $ (32 ) Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR December 13 2.2200 % $ 12,584 $ (133 ) Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9975 % $ 112,240 $ 299 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 2.0110 % $ 65,473 $ 160 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 14 1.9950 % $ 28,060 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5875 % $ 112,240 $ 73 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.6010 % $ 65,473 $ 26 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR January 15 2.5850 % $ 28,060 $ 16 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0025 % $ 112,240 $ 112 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0160 % $ 65,473 $ 51 Swap 1 mo. EURIBOR September 15 3.0000 % $ 28,060 $ 25 $ 1,060,057 $ 12 101 Table of Contents Cash Flow Hedges JPY Swaps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. JPY TIBOR October 12 0.6000 % $ 153,903 $ (420 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 25,998 $ (54 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR September 16 2.5200 % $ 16,018 $ (34 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 25,320 $ (244 ) Swap 3 mo. JPY LIBOR July 17 2.8800 % $ 16,018 $ (155 ) $ 237,257 $ (907 ) Cash Flow Hedges USD Caps Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Cap 1 mo. USD LIBOR October 12 4.2500 % $ 25,909 $ 8 $ 25,909 $ 8 Non Designated Hedges FX Forward Pay Fixed Buy Notional Amount Derivative Type Forward Rate Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value FX Forward 1.335675 March 11 EUR 124,143 $ 165,815 $ 108 FX Forward 1.551 March 11 GBP 17,000 $ 26,367 $ (85 ) FX Forward 1.00065 March 11 CAD 165,000 $ 164,893 $ (627 ) FX Forward 1.00075 March 11 CAD 78,000 $ 77,942 $ (304 ) $ 435,017 $ (908 ) Non Designated Hedges IR Swap Receive Floating Pay Fixed Notional Amount Derivative Type Index Maturity Date Strike Rate (USD Equivalent) Fair Value Swap 3 mo. EURIBOR June 11 4.4500 % $ 25,168 $ 713 $ 25,168 $ 713 Total USD Equivalent Amount $ 1,783,408 $ (1,082 ) International Operations. The companys exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating in the United States, Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe. The functional currency for the companys subsidiaries operating outside the United States, other than Mexico and certain subsidiaries in Europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. The companys subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. The gains (losses) resulting from the translation are 102 Table of Contents included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $36.7 million and $(22.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The companys international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. The company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total unrealized and realized gains (losses) from remeasurement and translation included in the companys results of operations were $1.4 million, $(7.2) million and $(5.7) million, respectively. 
 
