Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company. Capital Deployment Activities Our development and re development activities support our rental operations and are therefore included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company, through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co investment ventures for long term hold, for contribution into one of our co investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan we are developing directly while in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co investment ventures. Private Capital Segment We co invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co investment ventures. We have a direct and long standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific 4 Table of Contents needs and deploy capital in both close ended and open ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10 50% in the ventures. We believe our co investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co investment partners interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third party capital in our existing ventures. Our Operating Segments As discussed above, our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations, which includes our Capital Deployment activities, and Private Capital. Our Real Estate Operations segment represents the long term ownership of industrial operating properties, including development activities. Our Private Capital segment represents the long term management of co investment ventures and the properties they own. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors, our property information and market presence as presented in Item 2. Properties, a discussion of our segment results in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our segment footnote Note22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments. Competition The existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge. To the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our Real Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital. We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our Global Customer Solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. Customers We have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. At December 31, 2011, in our Real Estate Operations segment, we had 3,163 customers occupying 266.0 million square feet of distribution space. In the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,476 customers occupying 249.3 million square feet of distribution space. In our Real Estate Operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 0.6% and 7.2%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2011. Within our Global Customer Solutions team, we develop long term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. Keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. Our in depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. Approximately 50.0 % of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country. In our Private Capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. As of December 31, 2011, we partnered with 117 investors, several of which invest in multiple funds. Employees We employ 1,457 persons in our entire organization. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (925 persons), in 15 countries in Europe (345 persons) and in three countries in Asia (187 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 862 employees to our Real Estate Operations segment and 67 employees to our Private Capital segment. We have 528 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. Managements Overview At the time of the Merger, we established key strategic priorities to guide our path over the next two years. These priorities are: to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; 5 Table of Contents to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the REIT industry; to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth; to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and to build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career. Align our Portfolio with our Investment Strategy Subsequent to the Merger, we performed a comprehensive review of our owned and managed portfolio, and categorized the portfolio into three main segments global, regional and other markets. Global markets represent approximately 83% of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). Regional markets represent 12% of our total owned and managed platform. We intend to hold only the highest quality class A product in our regional markets. We also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for 5% of our owned and managed platform and that we plan to exit from in an orderly fashion in the next few years. By segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a strategy that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit for the company. We expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt and to recycle capital into new development projects or strategic acquisitions. Strengthen our Financial Position We intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry. We expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will provide us with more financial flexibility and allow continued access to debt capital markets. This financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they become available. We expect to lower our currency exposure by owning assets outside the U.S. primarily in co investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. We will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co investment ventures. In addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. We will also reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currencies when appropriate. Streamline Private Capital Business We are rationalizing our private capital business in conjunction with our private capital investors. Some of our co investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. Therefore, we may terminate or restructure certain of these co investment ventures. In other cases, we may combine some co investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. In every case, however, we will work very closely with our partners and venture investors who will be active participants in these decisions. We plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co investment ventures and raising incremental capital for our existing co investment ventures. Improve the Utilization of Our Low Yielding Assets We plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to its historical average of 95% leased, completing the build out and lease up of our development projects as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties. Build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career We have identified more than $115 million of Merger cost synergies on an annualized basis, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. In addition, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise wide system that will include a property management/billing system, a human resources system, a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse. In connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality. We have implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees compensation to our performance. We believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of our 2011 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above. Code of Ethics and Business Conduct We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board and all of our officers and employees, including the principal co executive officers, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal 6 Table of Contents executive officers, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S K, will be disclosed on our website. Environmental Matters We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Insurance Coverage We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverages include property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, named windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly owned captive insurance entity. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. However, an uninsured loss could result in loss of capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. These risks include, among others: General Disruptions in the Global Capital and Credit Markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years. Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. To the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated investees, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated investees have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated investees to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees. As a result, we may not be able to recover the current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated investees, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings in addition to the charges we previously recognized. Any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. As a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2011, we generated approximately 41.9% or $642 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; 7 Table of Contents the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in Mexico); foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws. Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. At December 31, 2011, approximately 43.5% or $12.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, Japanese yen and British pound sterling. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios and results of operations. Although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and, on occasion and when deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. While we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. In the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Risks Related to our Business General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. We are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 23.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $4.9 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in California, which represented 18.8% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 20.8% of our annualized base rent. Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry 8 Table of Contents slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact Californias economic climate. Because of the number of properties we have located in California, a downturn in Californias economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, France, Japan, New Jersey/New York City, South Florida and the United Kingdom. Our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. In addition, our unconsolidated investees have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in Central and Eastern Pennsylvania, Germany, Mexico, Poland and Reno and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. A number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. International properties located in active seismic areas include Japan and Mexico. We generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. We have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in Japan based on this analysis. Further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and or flood risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. We and our unconsolidated investees currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. We believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated investees are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; 9 Table of Contents governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. Our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. Our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. Our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. Our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. We are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. In the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re lease spaces. A customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customers failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. In addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customers lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. If we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated investee or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. We may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated investees or third parties on a case by case basis. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. The unconsolidated investee or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. If we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratios, and the value of our securities. We may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. We may acquire industrial properties. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. Additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. Our real estate development strategies may not be successful. Our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated investee, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. We may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build out and leasing of our development platform. We may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in additional impairment charges; 10 Table of Contents development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of managements time and attention, diverting their attention from our day to day operations. We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos containing building materials. In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk adjusted return. In connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. We cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co investment ventures, investing in new or existing co investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co investment ventures. As of December 31, 2011, we have an investment in approximately 277.8 million square feet held through unconsolidated investees. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated investees, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. Our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. Our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated investees. Our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; 11 Table of Contents our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co investment venture to additional risk. We generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated investees to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of our insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. Risks Related to Financing and Capital We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. Our Global Senior Credit Agreement, Yen based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. In addition, our unconsolidated investees may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements, including our Global Senior Credit Agreement and Yen based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect 12 Table of Contents the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. We are dependent on external sources of capital. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, the REIT can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third party sources of capital. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the markets perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. Federal Income Tax Risks Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. The REIT elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code, commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 1997. We believe we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the REIT must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the Operating Partnership. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. If we lost our REIT status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co investment ventures. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service 13 Table of Contents would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Risks relating to the Merger The combined company may be unable to integrate its businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. On June 3, 2011, AMB and ProLogis completed the Merger. The Merger involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent public companies, each of which operated its own private capital platform focused on the industrial real estate sector and served as the sponsor or manager of, or in a similar capacity with respect to, numerous private equity investment vehicles. The combined company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the constituent companies. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the Merger; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel and systems from the two companies; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of managements attention caused by completing the Merger. For all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or the diversion of our resources to the integration process as we attempt to complete the integration process, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. Other Risks Risks Associated with our Dependence on Key Personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. In connection with the completion of the Merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. While we believe that we have retained our key talent and can find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition. Many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated investees and our properties. Changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. We consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. We do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. However, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties We are invested in real estate properties that are primarily generic industrial properties. In Japan, our industrial properties are generally multi level centers, which is common in Japan due to the high cost and limited availability of land. Our properties are typically used for distribution, storage, packaging, assembly and light manufacturing of consumer and industrial products. Based on the square footage of the operating properties included in our Real Estate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (and discussed below), our properties are 100% industrial properties; including 92.5% used for bulk distribution, 4.4% used for light manufacturing and assembly, 1.3% used for flex industrial, 1.0% used for on tarmac and 0.8% used for other purposes. Geographic Distribution Our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain. Our properties are primarily located in two main market types, global markets and regional markets. Global markets account for 85.4% of our consolidated operating properties (based on investment balance) and comprise approximately 30 of the largest and most liquid markets tied to global trade. These markets feature large population centers with high per capita consumption rates and close proximity to airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. Regional markets account for 10.6% of our consolidated operating properties. Similar to global markets, regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain and are often less supply constrained. 15 Table of Contents The information in the following tables is as of December 31, 2011 for our consolidated operating properties, properties in our development portfolio and land, including 375 buildings owned by entities we consolidate but of which we own less than 100%. All of these assets are included in our Real Estate Operations segment. This includes our portfolio of operating properties we developed or are currently developing. No individual property or group of properties operating as a single business unit amounted to 10% or more of our consolidated total assets at December 31, 2011 or generated income equal to 10% or more of our consolidated gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. These tables do not include properties that are owned by unconsolidated investees. Consolidated operating properties in the Real EstateOperations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): No. ofBldgs. PercentageOccupied (1) RentableSquareFootage InvestmentBeforeDepreciation Encumbrances(2) Americas: Global Markets: United States: Atlanta 67 83.6 % 9,419 $ 378,553 $ 52,400 Baltimore/Washington 35 94.1 % 4,041 246,877 13,876 Central & Eastern PA 9 98.7 % 3,794 192,602 Central Valley, CA 13 86.0 % 5,251 270,542 8,966 Chicago 143 92.8 % 24,576 1,404,575 187,225 Dallas/Fort Worth 112 92.8 % 15,963 701,177 66,365 Houston 56 99.1 % 4,665 169,948 9,350 New Jersey/New York City 115 89.8 % 13,234 1,034,141 133,736 San Francisco Bay Area 213 88.9 % 17,233 1,677,961 126,837 Seattle 27 93.3 % 3,488 320,240 13,165 South Florida 65 92.1 % 6,298 649,979 40,317 Southern California 185 95.9 % 32,235 2,998,831 309,721 On Tarmac 29 92.2 % 2,354 266,237 9,064 Canada 14 91.7 % 4,690 472,823 Mexico 61 91.7 % 10,399 588,178 170,352 Regional and Other Markets United States: Austin 9 97.3 % 1,006 59,934 Boston 26 94.4 % 3,336 178,437 10,549 Charlotte 13 97.5 % 1,641 61,044 17,663 Cincinnati 16 94.7 % 2,513 85,053 22,015 Columbus 24 93.2 % 5,143 202,636 29,222 Denver 20 94.5 % 3,563 206,437 32,971 El Paso 8 84.6 % 931 33,437 Indianapolis 11 98.7 % 1,274 42,625 4,950 Las Vegas 8 78.6 % 840 47,398 Louisville 8 98.6 % 2,707 102,734 Memphis 17 91.0 % 4,094 123,802 Minneapolis 6 84.8 % 1,303 53,161 Nashville 22 80.6 % 2,032 57,109 Orlando 23 72.6 % 2,648 158,027 Phoenix 20 88.6 % 2,348 116,419 Portland 11 94.5 % 1,374 94,221 18,338 Reno 11 93.3 % 2,184 94,701 10,108 San Antonio 30 88.5 % 3,056 117,804 3,183 Savannah 1 61.0 % 346 16,847 St. Louis 6 88.6 % 685 24,158 Tampa 11 82.7 % 837 35,279 8,696 Subtotal Americas 1,445 92.0 % 201,501 13,283,927 1,299,069 Europe: Global Markets: Belgium 6 99.5 % 1,497 119,143 33,369 France 82 92.7 % 22,116 1,707,371 253,774 Germany 36 93.3 % 6,104 456,527 62,042 Netherlands 22 91.4 % 4,623 367,640 56,338 Poland 45 81.1 % 10,125 570,561 145,083 Spain 21 79.8 % 5,529 505,549 44,006 United Kingdom 38 91.2 % 7,172 688,122 153,495 Regional and Other Markets: Austria 1 100.0 % 115 10,192 Czech Republic 20 83.4 % 4,056 302,457 44,033 Hungary 19 85.0 % 3,171 180,581 8,629 Italy 23 89.0 % 7,400 473,225 104,525 Romania 4 98.6 % 1,160 52,662 Slovakia 1 100.0 % 287 16,656 Sweden 5 100.0 % 2,285 193,691 Subtotal Europe 323 89.3 % 75,640 5,644,377 905,294 16 Table of Contents Consolidated operating properties in the Real EstateOperations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): No. ofBldgs. PercentageOccupied (1) RentableSquareFootage InvestmentBeforeDepreciation Encumbrances(2) Asia: Global Markets: China 7 96.1 % 1,750 54,669 Japan 17 94.3 % 11,218 2,429,412 782,422 Singapore 5 100.0 % 942 140,163 21,710 Subtotal Asia 29 94.9 % 13,910 2,624,244 804,132 Total operating properties 1,797 91.4 % 291,051 $ 21,552,548 $ 3,008,495 Investment in Land Development Portfolio Consolidated land and development portfolio in the RealEstate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): Acres Investment No. ofBldgs. PercentageLeased (1) RentableSquareFootage CurrentInvestment TotalExpectedInvestment(3) Americas: Global Markets: United States: Atlanta 732 $28,003 $ $ Baltimore/Washington 106 14,868 2 171 7,540 15,583 Central & Eastern PA 339 29,354 Central Valley 188 17,005 Chicago 638 60,090 Dallas/Ft. Worth 470 23,373 Houston 65 7,928 1 147 4,115 7,752 New Jersey/New York City 305 124,431 3 63.5 % 497 45,142 66,078 Seattle 15 2,121 South Florida 377 141,581 1 190 3,456 15,912 Southern California 779 121,810 2 686 46,838 60,978 Canada 230 92,034 Mexico 1,021 221,568 5 60.9 % 817 34,408 49,960 Regional and Other Markets: United States: Boston 18 7,114 Central Florida 147 26,336 Charlotte Greenville 20 1,359 Cincinnati 75 4,915 Columbus 199 6,692 Denver 66 8,315 El Paso 16 953 Indianapolis 127 4,469 Jacksonville 103 10,929 Las Vegas 66 7,561 Louisville 13 425 Memphis 159 6,452 Norfolk 84 7,814 Phoenix 148 7,608 Portland 23 2,572 Reno 173 9,882 Savannah 229 13,082 Subtotal Americas 6,931 1,010,644 14 32.4 % 2,508 141,499 216,263 17 Table of Contents Investment in Land Development Portfolio Consolidated land and development portfolio in theReal Estate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): Acres Investment No. ofBldgs. PercentageLeased (1) RentableSquareFootage CurrentInvestment TotalExpectedInvestment(3) Europe: Global Markets: Belgium 30 10,298 France 396 68,434 2 43.9 % 506 28,340 37,301 Germany 203 50,475 4 58.3 % 766 34,581 64,963 Netherlands 63 57,384 Poland 893 116,942 2 50.6 % 407 19,469 29,390 Spain 100 19,586 United Kingdom 981 243,325 1 100.0 % 458 37,716 42,720 Regional and Other Markets: Austria 28 13,976 Czech Republic 308 45,249 1 100.0 % 314 17,572 18,369 Hungary 338 46,716 Italy 114 33,589 Romania 90 12,436 Slovakia 108 18,591 Subtotal Europe 3,652 737,001 10 67.2 % 2,451 137,678 192,743 Asia: Global Markets: China 42 11,467 Japan 98 225,121 6 50.1 % 4,478 581,354 757,888 Subtotal Asia 140 236,588 6 50.1 % 4,478 581,354 757,888 Total land and development portfolio 10,723 $ 1,984,233 30 49.8 % 9,437 $ 860,531 $ 1,166,894 The following is a summary of our investment in consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2011: Investment BeforeDepreciation(in thousands) Industrial properties $ 21,552,548 Development portfolio 860,531 Land 1,984,233 Other real estate investments (4) 390,225 Total $ 24,787,537 (1) Represents the percentage occupied for our operating properties and leased for the properties in the development portfolio at December 31, 2011. Operating properties at December 31, 2011 include completed development properties that may be in the initial lease up phase, which reduces the overall leased percentage. (2) Certain properties are pledged as security under our secured mortgage debt and assessment bonds at December 31, 2011. For purposes of this table, the total principal balance of a debt issuance that is secured by a pool of properties is allocated among the properties in the pool based on each propertys investment balance. In addition to the amounts reflected here, we also have a $12.6 million in encumbrances related to our development portfolio and $147.1 million of encumbrances related to other real estate properties not included in the Real Estate Operations segment. See Schedule III Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional identification of the properties pledged. (3) Represents the total expected investment when the property under development is completed and leased. This includes the cost of land, development and leasing costs. (4) Included in other investments are: (i) certain other non industrial real estate; (ii) our corporate office buildings; (iii) land subject to ground leases; (iv) certain infrastructure costs related to projects we are developing on behalf of others; (v) costs incurred related to future development projects, including purchase options on land; and (vi) earnest money deposits associated with potential acquisitions. Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures At December 31, 2011, we had an investment in properties through our unconsolidated co investment ventures that we also managed of 1,403 properties with 267.8 million square feet and a total entity investment of $21.3 billion. See further discussion in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we and our unconsolidated investees are parties to a variety of legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that, with respect to any such matters that we are currently a party to, the ultimate disposition of any such matter will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. In December 2011, arbitration hearings began in connection with a dispute related to a real estate development project known as Pacific Commons. The plaintiff, Cisco Technology, Inc. (Cisco), is seeking rescission of a 2007 Restructuring and Settlement Agreement (the Contract) and other agreements, and declaratory relief, and damages for breach of the Contract. Specifically, Cisco seeks (1) declaratory relief that Prologis owes certain Community Facilities District taxes that have been assessed against Ciscos land, following Ciscos purchase of the land from Prologis through the exercise of option agreements; (2) declaratory relief that Prologis partial transfers of rights and obligations under the Contract to third parties are void; and (3) damages for alleged breaches of the Contract relating to the plans to build a baseball stadium at Pacific Commons. Although the total damages alleged by Cisco are approximately $200 million, we believe these claims are without merit and are defending these matters vigorously. Based on the facts and circumstances surrounding this dispute, we believe the low end of our range of loss is zero and therefore, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), we have not recorded any liability with respect to this matter as of December 31, 2011. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol PLD. The following table sets forth the high and low sale price of the common stock of the REIT (AMB pre merger), as reported in the NYSE Composite Tape, and the declared dividends per common share, for the periods indicated. High Low Dividends (1) 2010 First Quarter (1) $ 29.60 $ 21.80 $ 0.28 Second Quarter (1) 29.17 23.14 0.28 Third Quarter (1) 26.97 22.05 0.28 Fourth Quarter (1) 32.18 26.14 0.28 2011 First Quarter (1) $ 36.47 $ 31.75 $ 0.28 Second Quarter (1) 37.44 31.76 0.28 Third Quarter 37.46 23.94 0.28 Fourth Quarter 30.56 21.74 0.28 2012 First Quarter (through February 22) $ 34.73 $ 28.16 $ 0.28 (2) (1) The per share sale price and dividends are different than the amounts disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The difference is due to the distinction between legal and accounting acquirer. The pre Merger information presented is historical AMB amounts as it was the legal acquirer. (2) Declared on February 22, 2012 and payable on March 30, 2012 to holders of record on March 12, 2012. On February 22, 2012, we had approximately 458,974,100 shares of common stock outstanding, which were held of record by approximately 6,700 stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following line graph compares the change in the REITs cumulative total stockholders return on shares of its common stock from December 31, 2006 to the cumulative total return of the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in the common stock of the REIT (AMB pre Merger) and each of the indices on December 31, 2006 and, as required by the SEC, the reinvestment of all dividends. The return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance. *$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright &copy; 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. This graph and the accompanying text are not soliciting material, are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by reference in any filing by the company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. Dividends In order to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, we are generally required to make common and preferred stock dividends (other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders in amounts that together at least equal (i) the sum of (a) 90% of our REIT taxable income computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains and (b) 90% of the net income (after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus (ii) certain excess non cash income. Our common stock distribution policy is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow that ensures that we will meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and that allows us to also retain cash to meet other needs, such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.1125 per common share (or $0.25 after being adjusted by the Merger exchange ratio) for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is considered the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash distribution of $0.28 per common share for the third quarter on September 30, 2011 and for the fourth quarter on December 29, 2011. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board of Directors (Board) upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. In addition to common stock, at December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding (Series L Preferred Stock, Series M Preferred Stock, Series O Preferred Stock, Series P Preferred Stock, Series Q Preferred Stock, Series R Preferred Stock and Series S Preferred Stock). The Series Q, R and S Preferred Stock was issued in connection with the Merger and exchanged for the outstanding C, F and G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis, respectively. 20 Table of Contents Holders of each series of preferred stock outstanding have limited voting rights, subject to certain conditions, and are entitled to receive cumulative preferential dividends based upon each series respective liquidation preference. Dividends for Series Q, R and S are payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December. Dividends for Series L, M, O and P are payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of April, July, October and January. Dividends on preferred stock are payable when, and if, they have been declared by the Board, out of funds legally available for payment of dividends. After the respective redemption dates, each series of preferred stock can be redeemed at our option. The cash redemption price (other than the portion consisting of accrued and unpaid dividends) with respect to Series Q Preferred Stock is payable solely out of the cumulative sales proceeds of other capital shares of ours, which may include shares of other series of preferred stock. With respect to the payment of dividends, each series of preferred stock ranks on parity with our other series of preferred stock. The following table sets forth the Companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: Years Ended December 31, 2011(1) 2010(1) Series L Preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 Series M Preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 Series O Preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 Series P Preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 Series Q Preferred stock (2) $ 3.20 n/a Series R Preferred stock (2) $ 1.27 n/a Series S Preferred stock (2) $ 1.27 n/a (1) The dividends are different than the amounts disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The difference is due to the distinction between legal and accounting acquirer. The pre Merger information presented is historical AMB amounts as it was the legal acquirer. (2) The Series Q, R and S Preferred Stock was issued in connection with the Merger and exchanged for the outstanding C, F and G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis, respectively. Amounts reflect actual dividends paid or payable during 2011 subsequent to the Merger. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. For more information regarding our dividends, see Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans see Notes 11 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Stockholder Matters Common Stock Plans See our 2012 Proxy Statement or our subsequent amendment of this Form 10 K for further information relative to our equity compensation plans. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial data related to our historical financial condition and results of operations for 2011 and the four preceding years. As previously discussed, since ProLogis was the accounting acquirer in the Merger, the historical results of ProLogis are included for the entire period presented and AMBs results are included subsequent to the Merger. Certain amounts for the years prior to 2011 presented in the table below have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 financial statement presentation and to reflect discontinued operations. The amounts in the table below are in millions, except for per share amounts. REIT Years Ended December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Total revenues (2) $ 1,533 $ 885 $ 1,027 $ 5,369 $ 5,917 Total expenses (2) $ 1,406 $ 1,486 $ 1,072 $ 4,878 $ 4,907 Operating income (loss) (2)(3) $ 127 $ (601) $ (45) $ 491 $ 1,010 Interest expense $ 469 $ 461 $ 373 $ 384 $ 388 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (3) $ (244) $ (1,589) $ (355) $ (367) $ 841 Discontinued operations (3) $ 87 $ 319 $ 379 $ (83) $ 216 Consolidated net earnings (loss) (3) $ (158) $ (1,270) $ 24 $ (450) $ 1,058 Net earnings (loss) attributable to common shares (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Basic: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 7.07 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.89 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Basic (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.96 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Diluted: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 6.84 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.81 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Diluted (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.65 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic (4) 371 220 180 117 115 Diluted (4) 371 220 180 117 119 Common Share Distributions: Common share cash distributions paid $ 387 $ 281 $ 272 $ 543 $ 473 Common share distributions per share (4) $ 1.06 $ 1.25 $ 1.57 $ 4.63 $ 4.12 FFO (5): Reconciliation of net earnings (loss) to FFO: Net earnings (loss) attributable to common shares (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Total NAREIT defined adjustments (6) 660 368 260 449 150 Total our defined adjustments (60) (46) (71) 164 28 FFO attributable to common shares as defined by Prologis $ 412 $ (974) $ 186 $ 134 $ 1,206 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities (2) $ 207 $ 241 $ 89 $ 888 $ 1,230 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (2) $ (233) $ 733 $ 1,235 $ (1,347) $ (4,076) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 163 $ (970) $ (1,463) $ 358 $ 2,742 22 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 (6) 2007 (6) Financial Position: Real estate properties, excluding land, before depreciation $ 22,803 $ 11,346 $ 12,606 $ 13,234 $ 14,414 Land $ 1,984 $ 1,534 $ 2,574 $ 2,483 $ 2,153 Net investments in properties $ 22,630 $ 11,284 $ 13,508 $ 14,134 $ 15,199 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees $ 2,858 $ 2,025 $ 2,107 $ 2,195 $ 2,252 Total assets $ 27,724 $ 14,903 $ 16,797 $ 19,210 $ 19,652 Total debt $ 11,382 $ 6,506 $ 7,978 $ 10,711 $ 10,217 Total liabilities $ 13,268 $ 7,382 $ 8,790 $ 12,452 $ 11,848 Noncontrolling interests $ 794 $ 15 $ 20 $ 20 $ 79 Stockholders equity $ 13,662 $ 7,505 $ 7,987 $ 6,738 $ 7,725 Number of common shares outstanding (4) 459 254 212 119 115 Operating Partnership Years Ended December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Total revenues (2) $ 1,533 $ 885 $ 1,027 $ 5,369 $ 5,917 Total expenses (2) $ 1,406 $ 1,486 $ 1,072 $ 4,878 $ 4,907 Operating income (loss) (2)(3) $ 127 $ (601) $ (45) $ 491 $ 1,010 Interest expense $ 469 $ 461 $ 373 $ 384 $ 388 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (3) $ (244) $ (1,589) $ (355) $ (367) $ 841 Discontinued operations (3) $ 87 $ 319 $ 379 $ (83) $ 216 Consolidated net earnings (loss) (3) $ (158) $ (1,270) $ 24 $ (450) $ 1,058 Net earnings (loss) attributable to common unitholders (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Basic: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 7.07 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.89 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Basic (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.96 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Diluted: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 6.84 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.81 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Diluted (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.65 Weighted average common units outstanding: Basic (4) 372 220 180 117 115 Diluted (4) 372 220 180 117 119 Common Unit Distributions: Common unit cash distributions paid $ 388 $ 281 $ 272 $ 543 $ 473 Common unit distributions per unit (4) $ 1.06 $ 1.25 $ 1.57 $ 4.63 $ 4.12 FFO (5): Reconciliation of net earnings (loss) to FFO: Net earnings (loss) attributable to common units (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Total NAREIT defined adjustments (6) 660 368 260 449 150 Total our defined adjustments (60) (46) (71) 164 28 FFO attributable to common units as defined by Prologis $ 412 $ (974) $ 186 $ 134 $ 1,206 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities (2) $ 207 $ 241 $ 89 $ 888 $ 1,230 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (2) $ (233) $ 733 $ 1,235 $ (1,347) $ (4,076) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 163 $ (970) $ (1,463) $ 358 $ 2,742 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 (6) 2007 (6) Financial Position: Real estate properties, excluding land, before depreciation $ 22,803 $ 11,346 $ 12,606 $ 13,234 $ 14,414 Land $ 1,984 $ 1,534 $ 2,574 $ 2,483 $ 2,153 Net investments in properties $ 22,630 $ 11,284 $ 13,508 $ 14,134 $ 15,199 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees $ 2,858 $ 2,025 $ 2,107 $ 2,195 $ 2,252 Total assets $ 27,724 $ 14,903 $ 16,797 $ 19,210 $ 19,652 Total debt $ 11,382 $ 6,506 $ 7,978 $ 10,711 $ 10,217 Total liabilities $ 13,268 $ 7,382 $ 8,790 $ 12,452 $ 11,848 Noncontrolling interests $ 735 $ 15 $ 20 $ 20 $ 79 Partners capital $ 13,721 $ 7,505 $ 7,987 $ 6,738 $ 7,725 Number of common units outstanding (4) 461 254 212 119 115 (1) In 2011, we completed the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information). Activity in 2011 includes seven months of results in connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. (2) During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we contributed certain properties with any resulting gain or loss reflected as net gains in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and as cash provided by investing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In 2008 and previous years, we reflected these contributions as gross revenues and expenses and as cash provided by operating activities. See our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. (3) During 2011, we recognized impairment charges of $23.9 million on certain real estate properties, which includes $2.7 million in Discontinued Operations, and $126.4 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $824.3 million on certain of our real estate properties, which includes $87.7 million in Discontinued Operations, and $412.7 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $331.6 million on certain of our real estate properties and $163.6 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $274.7 million on certain of our real estate properties and $320.6 million related to goodwill and other assets. In addition, during 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $198.2 million in Discontinued Operations related to the net assets of our China operations that were reclassified as held for sale and our share of impairment charges recorded by an unconsolidated investee of $108.2 million. We did not recognize any impairment in 2007. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. (4) The historical shares of ProLogis were adjusted by the Merger exchange ratio of 0.4464 for all periods presented. As a result, the per share/unit calculations and shares/units outstanding were also adjusted. (5) See definition of Funds From Operations (FFO) in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (6) In 2011, the definition of NAREIT defined FFO was amended, according to which impairment write downs of depreciable real estate should be excluded in the computation of FFO. As a result, NAREIT defined adjustments were adjusted for the impairment charge on certain real estate properties for all periods presented. Amounts of impairment excluded from the calculation of FFO were $5.3 million, $127.0 million and $46.6 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no impairment amounts excluded from the calculation of FFO in 2008. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company We are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated ventures, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises. Of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2011: approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2% occupied; approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased; 24 Table of Contents approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and non industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio. Prologis, Inc. is a self administered and self managed real estate investment trust, and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. We operate the REIT and the Operating Partnership as one enterprise, and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to the REIT and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, collectively. On June 3, 2011, we completed the Merger in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of AMB common stock for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis. Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Therefore, pre Merger activity included in the Management Discussion and Analysis is the activity of ProLogis and does not include AMB results until June 3, 2011. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating PEPR. We have recorded the purchase price allocations for both the Merger of $5.9 billion and PEPR Acquisition of $1.6 billion in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not provide as meaningful of information as if those transactions were reflected in both periods. As a result of this Merger, we have identified more than $115 million on an annualized basis of merger cost synergies, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Business Strategy Our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Private Capital. We generate revenues, earnings, net operating income, and funds from operations, both as defined below, and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as follows: Real Estate Operations Segment Rental Operations This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or FFO as defined below). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company. Capital Deployment Activities Our development and re development activities support our rental operations and are, therefore, included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co investment ventures for long term hold, for contribution into one of our co investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan, we are developing directly while in emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co investment ventures. Private Capital Segment We co invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co investment ventures. We have a direct and long standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital in both close ended and open ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10 50% in the ventures. We believe our co investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co investment partners interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third party capital in our existing ventures. In 2009, we recognized income in the CDFS business segment related to gains from the Japan property funds that were deferred upon original contributions and triggered with the sale of our investments. We no longer have a CDFS business segment. 25 Table of Contents Summary of 2011 During the year ended December 31, 2011, we completed the following activities in support of our strategic priorities: Completed the Merger on June 3, 2011 and have completed the majority of the integration activities. Completed the PEPR Acquisition in May 2011. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we increased our debt to $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we have reduced our debt to $11.4 billion due primarily to repayments that were funded with proceeds from dispositions of properties. As of June 30, 2011 our total owned and managed portfolio, including consolidated and unconsolidated properties, was 90.7% occupied and 91.3% leased. As a result of significant leasing activity in the second half of 2011 we increased to 92.2% occupied and 92.5% leased, as of December 31, 2011. Issued 34.5 million shares of common stock in a public offering at a price of $33.50 per share, generating approximately $1.1 billion in net proceeds (2011 Equity Offering) in late June 2011. Entered into a new global senior credit agreement, terminated our existing global line of credit and amended a yen revolving credit agreement. Completed an exchange offer in June 2011 for ProLogis senior notes and exchangeable senior notes. Operational Outlook Despite the ongoing slowdown in the global economic recovery, fourth quarter real estate fundamentals in the U.S. industrial markets continued to improve consistent with the improvement we saw in the third quarter. Though down from its rebound third quarter level, net absorption of U.S. industrial space measured 28 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Net absorption has been positive for the last six consecutive quarters, reducing the availability rate by 90 basis points during that time. At 13.6%, availability is at its lowest level since the second quarter of 2009. Net effective rent has made modest improvements, and as a result, some speculative development is beginning in selected locations such as Miami, Washington D.C., Seattle, Southern California, and Houston. Though economic growth remains relatively moderate, inventories continue to rise, and utilization rates have been on an overall upward trajectory since late 2010. In the U.S., net absorption totaled more than 117 million square feet in 2011, representing a remarkable improvement over the past few years, and we expect net absorption of 150 175 million square feet in 2012. Within Europe and Japan, we believe significant supply chain reconfiguration, the ongoing globalization of Central and Eastern Europe, obsolescence and strong tenant preference to rent rather than own will fuel additional demand for industrial space. Moreover, the undersupply of Class A distribution space in Japan has and will continue to create demand for more modern, earthquake resistant product, especially as Japan rebuilds and regroups from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, which temporarily interrupted its supply chain. Demand in emerging markets where we have investments primarily through our co investment ventures, such as Brazil, China, and Mexico, remains strong. In our total owned and managed operating portfolio, which includes properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated co investment ventures that are accounted for under the equity method and including properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 138.8 million square feet of space in 2011. Excluding the properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 119.4 million square feet of space during the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective rental rates on leases signed during the fourth quarter of 2011 in our same store portfolio (as defined below) decreased by 4.5% when compared with the rental rates on the previous leases on that same space. The total owned and managed portfolio was 92.2% occupied at December 31, 2011, up from 89.0% at December 31, 2010. Our existing customers renewed their leases 74.7% of the time in 2011 as compared with 79.5% in 2010. We believe that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and we are currently evaluating multiple opportunities in our global and regional markets around the globe. Our development business consists of speculative development, build to suit development, value added coversions and redevelopment. We expect to develop directly and within the co investment structures depending on location, market conditions, submarkets or building sites, and availability of capital. We believe that developing, redeveloping and or expanding of well located, high quality industrial properties provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from purchasing existing properties. However, development projects may require significant management attention and capital investment to maximize returns. During 2011, in response to this emerging demand, we (including ProLogis, AMB pre Merger, and unconsolidated entities) commenced development of 42 properties totaling 10.8 million square feet with a total expected investment of $1.0 billion. Of this amount, $863.5 million is our share and $153.2 million is the share of our co investment venture partners. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary The following table illustrates the net operating income for each of our segments, along with the reconciling items to Loss from Continuing Operations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net operating income real estate operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 Net operating income private capital segment 82,657 81,867 101,547 Net operating income CDFS business segment 180,237 General and administrative expenses (195,161) (165,981) (192,231) Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses (140,495) Impairment of real estate properties (21,237) (736,612) (331,592) Depreciation and amortization (585,323) (311,268) (266,364) Earnings from unconsolidated investees, net 59,935 23,678 28,059 Interest expense (468,738) (461,166) (372,768) Impairment of goodwill and other assets (126,432) (412,745) (163,644) Interest and other income (expense), net 12,008 15,847 (39,349) Gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net 111,684 28,488 35,262 Foreign currency exchange and derivative gains (losses), net 41,172 (11,081) 35,626 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 258 (201,486) 172,258 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,776) 30,499 (5,975) Loss from continuing operations $ (244,459) $ (1,589,462) $ (355,089) See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our segments and a reconciliation of net operating income to Loss Before Income Taxes. Real Estate Operations Segment The net operating income of the Real Estate Operations segment consisted of rental income and rental expenses from industrial properties that we own and consolidate and is impacted by our capital deployment activities. The size and percentage of occupancy of our consolidated operating portfolio fluctuates due to the timing of acquisitions, development activity and contributions. Such fluctuations affect the net operating income we recognize in this segment in a particular period. Also included in this segment is revenue from land we own and lease to customers under ground leases and development management and other income, offset by acquisition costs and land holding costs. As discussed earlier, results for 2011 included approximately seven months of rental income and expenses from the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. The results of properties that were sold to third parties are presented as Discontinued Operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for all periods and therefore do not impact the segment results. The net operating income from the Real Estate Operations segment for the years ended December 31, was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Rental and other income $ 1,395,672 $ 762,061 $ 701,971 Rental and other expenses 408,683 231,563 238,126 Total net operating income Real Estate Operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 The increases in rental income and rental expenses in 2011 from 2010 are due principally to the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition, increased occupancy in our consolidated operating portfolio (from 85.9% at December 31, 2010 to 91.4% at December 31, 2011) and the completion and stabilization of new development properties. The results for 2011 include approximately seven months of rental income and rental expenses from properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition of $565.5 million and $147.6 million, respectively. In our consolidated portfolio, we leased 63.4 million square feet in 2011 compared to 57.3 million square feet in 2010. The increase in net operating income in 2010 over 2009 is due primarily to increased occupancy in the development portfolio. We calculate the change in effective rental rates on the previous leases on that same space for leases signed during a quarter, based on our same store portfolio (as defined below). During 2011 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 8.9% to a decrease of 4.5%. During 2010 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 15.7% to a decrease of 8.5%. The decrease was due to: (i) leases turning that were put in place when market rents were at or near peak; and (ii) decreased market rents. Under the terms of our lease agreements, we are able to recover the majority of our rental expenses from customers. Rental expense recoveries, included in both rental income and rental expenses, were $283.1 million, $161.0 million and $150.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Our consolidated operating portfolio as of December 31 was as follows (square feet in thousands): Number ofProperties Square Feet Leased % 2011 (1) 1,797 291,051 91.7% 2010 985 168,547 87.6% 2009 1,188 191,623 82.7% (1) The amount at December 31, 2011 included 848 properties with 126.3 million square feet that were acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Private Capital Segment The net operating income of the Private Capital segment consisted of fees and incentives earned for services performed for our unconsolidated investees and certain third parties, reduced by our direct costs of managing these entities and the properties they own. The direct costs associated with our Private Capital segment totaled $55.0 million, $40.7 million and $43.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in the line item Private Capital Expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8. These expenses include the direct expenses associated with the asset management of the unconsolidated co investment ventures provided by individuals who are assigned to our Private Capital segment. In addition, in order to achieve efficiencies and economies of scale, all of our property management functions are provided by a team of professionals who are assigned to our Real Estate Operations segment. These individuals perform the property level management of the properties in our owned and managed portfolio including properties we consolidate and the properties we manage that are owned by the unconsolidated investees. We allocate the costs of our property management function to the properties we consolidate (reported in Rental Expenses) and the properties owned by the unconsolidated investees (included in Private Capital Expenses), by using the square feet owned by the respective portfolios. The increase in Private Capital Expenses in 2011 is due to the increased private capital platform and infrastructure that was part of the Merger, offset partially with a decline in the portion of our property management expenses that are allocated to this segment due to the consolidation of PEPR. The net operating income from the Private Capital segment for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Unconsolidated ventures: Americas (1) $ 42,644 $ 40,354 $ 44,284 Europe (2) 30,708 41,200 34,508 Asia (3) 9,305 313 22,755 Total net operating income Private Capital segment $ 82,657 $ 81,867 $ 101,547 (1) Represents the fees earned by us from 10, 10 and 12 unconsolidated co investment ventures for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reduced by private capital expenses. In connection with the Merger, we added three co investment ventures in the Americas (with investments in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil). In December 2010, we sold our interests in three U.S. co investment ventures. (2) Represents the fees earned by us from several different unconsolidated co investment ventures, reduced by private capital expenses. In 2011, we had one co investment venture during the entire year, we included PEPR up to the date we began consolidating at the end of May 2011, and added two co investment ventures acquired through the Merger. In 2010 and 2009, we had two co investment ventures for the entire year. (3) Represents the fees earned by us from our investments in three unconsolidated co investment ventures in 2011 and only one co investment venture in South Korea during 2010, reduced by private capital expenses. We sold our investment in the Korea co investment venture during the third quarter 2011. With the Merger, we acquired an investment in an unconsolidated co investment venture in each of Japan and China. In addition to the Korea co investment venture in 2009, we had two co investment ventures in Japan that were sold in February of 2009. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information on our unconsolidated investees. CDFS Business Segment Net operating income of the CDFS business segment for 2009 was $180.2 million. As previously discussed, our business strategy no longer includes the CDFS business segment. The amount in 2009 is the recognition of gains previously deferred from the contribution of properties and recognized due to the sale of our investments in the Japan co investment venture in February 2009. 28 Table of Contents Other Components of Income General and Administrative (G&A) Expense and Reduction in Workforce (RIF) G&A expenses for the years ended December 31 consisted of the following (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Gross G&A expense (1) $ 332,632 $ 266,932 $ 304,153 Reported as rental expenses (24,741) (19,709) (19,446) Reported as private capital expenses (54,962) (40,659) (43,416) Capitalized amounts (57,768) (40,583) (49,060) Net G&A $ 195,161 $ 165,981 $ 192,231 (1) 2009 included expenses related to a RIF program. At the end of 2008, in response to the difficult economic climate, we initiated G &A expense reductions. These initiatives included a RIF plan that had a total cost of $11.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in G&A expenses and the various components from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to the Merger, PEPR Acquisition and the larger infrastructure associated with our larger company. Overall G&A expense decreased from 2009 to 2010 due to lower gross G&A expense, as a result of the RIF program in 2009 and various cost savings measures, offset by lower capitalized G&A. Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses In connection with the Merger and other related activities, we have incurred significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; system conversion costs; and other integration costs. These costs are expensed as incurred. The costs that were obligations of AMB and expensed pre Merger are not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. At the time of the Merger, we terminated our existing credit facilities and wrote off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which are included as a merger expense. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR and the reduction in workforce charges associated with dispositions made in 2011. We expect to continue to recognize costs, primarily compensation and severance costs for transitional employees and system conversion and implementation costs through the end of 2012 as incurred. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during 2011 (in thousands): 2011 Termination, severance and transitional employee costs $ 58,445 Professional fees 46,467 Office closure, travel and other costs 24,714 Write off of deferred loan costs 10,869 Total $ 140,495 The majority of the costs incurred in 2011 were incurred during the second quarter of 2011 when the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition were completed. Impairment of Real Estate Properties During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized impairment charges of real estate properties in continuing operations of $21.2 million, $736.6 million and $331.6 million, respectively, due to our change of intent to no longer hold these assets for long term investment. In 2010, the charges primarily included land as a result of our change in strategy. Changes in economic and operating conditions and our ultimate investment intent with regard to our investments in real estate that occur in the future may result in additional impairment charges or gains at the time of sale. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more detail on the process we took to value these assets and the related impairments taken. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense was $585.3 million, $311.3 million and $266.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization expenses associated with the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (including intangible assets), completed and leased development properties and increased leasing activity. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to the completion, retention and leasing of our developed properties. 29 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense from continued operations, included the following components (in thousands) for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 Gross interest expense $ 500,685 $ 435,289 $ 382,362 Amortization of discount, net 228 47,136 67,542 Amortization of deferred loan costs 20,476 32,402 17,069 Interest expense before capitalization 521,389 514,827 466,973 Capitalized amounts (52,651) (53,661) (94,205) Net interest expense $ 468,738 $ 461,166 $ 372,768 Gross interest expense increased in 2011 from 2010 due primarily to higher debt levels as a result of the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, offset partially by decreased interest rates. The decrease in capitalized amounts in 2011 from 2010 was due to lower interest rates during 2011. During the first part of 2011, we had lower debt balances as a result of repayment and repurchases of debt made in 2010 with proceeds from asset sales and the November 2010 equity offering. We reduced our outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 to $6.5 billion. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we added approximately $5.9 billion of debt at fair value at the beginning of June 2011 and approximately seven months of related interest expense in 2011. At December 31, 2011, our debt balance was $11.4 billion, a decrease from $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011, primarily due to repayments funded by proceeds received from the dispositions of properties. All of these activities have resulted in a lower weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of premiums, discounts and deferred loan costs) of 5.58% in 2011, as compared with 6.48% in 2010. The increase in interest expense in 2010 over 2009 is due to increased borrowing rates and lower capitalization due to less development activity in 2010. In addition, in 2010 we wrote off $7.7 million in deferred loan costs based on the proportionate amount that we reduced our borrowing capacity on our global line of credit. The lower amortization of discount is due to the buyback of exchangeable debt that includes a non cash discount. Our weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred loan costs) was 5.34% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our future interest expense, both gross and the portion capitalized, will vary depending on, among other things, the level of our development activities, which we expect will increase subsequent to the Merger. See Notes 3 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion of our debt and borrowing costs. Earnings from Unconsolidated Investees, Net We recognized net earnings of $59.9 million, $23.7 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These earnings relate to our investment in unconsolidated investees that are accounted for on the equity method. The primary reason for the increase in 2011 over 2010 is due to the investments we acquired through the Merger, partially offset by the consolidation of PEPR. The earnings we recognize are impacted by: (i) variances in revenues and expenses of the entity; (ii) the size and occupancy rate of the portfolio of properties owned by the entity; (iii) our ownership interest in the entity; and (iv) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars, if applicable. We manage the majority of the properties in which we have an ownership interest as part of our total owned and managed portfolio. See discussion of our portfolio results in the section, Portfolio Information. See also Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets Based on our review of goodwill in 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $368.5 million related to goodwill allocated to the Real Estate Operations segment in the Americas and Europe reporting units. The review of goodwill was triggered by the strategic decision we made in the fourth quarter of 2010 to significantly downsize our development platform and, as a result, to sell to third parties certain other assets, some of which were acquired in the acquisitions that originally created the goodwill. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $126.4 million, $44.3 million and $163.6 million, respectively, on certain of our investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees, notes receivable and other assets, as we did not believe these amounts to be recoverable based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with these assets, including estimated sales proceeds or we believed the decline in fair value to be other than temporary. See Notes 2 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our process with regard to analyzing the recoverability of goodwill and other assets. Also see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our unconsolidated investees. 30 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net We recognized interest and other income not allocated to a segment of $12.0 million and $15.8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and other expense of $39.3 million in 2009. The primary components in 2009 were adjustments of $20.3 million to accruals we had related to rent indemnifications we had made to certain co investment ventures due to changes in leasing and other assumptions and settlement costs of $13.0 million related to an obligation we assumed in the 2005 acquisition of Catellus. Gains on Acquisitions and Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net During 2011, we recognized net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $111.7 million. This included gains recognized in the second quarter related to the PEPR Acquisition ($85.9 million) and the acquisition of our partners interest in a joint venture in Japan ($13.5 million) and the contribution or sale of properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The gains represent the adjustment to fair value of our equity investments at the time we gained control and consolidated the entities. The contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $590.8 million and net gains of $12.3 million. During 2010, we recognized net gains on dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $28.5 million, which related to the contribution of land and operating properties to unconsolidated investees ($58.3 million gain), additional proceeds from contributions we made to PEPF II in 2009 based on valuations received as of December 31, 2010 and our contribution agreement with the fund ($27.4 million gain) and the sale of land parcels to third parties ($7.4 million gain), offset by a loss of $64.6 million related to the sale of certain unconsolidated investees. The 2010 contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $469.7 million related to the contribution of development properties aggregating 2.1 million square feet and land to unconsolidated investees, and the sale of 90% of two development properties in Japan with 1.3 million square feet. We continue to own 10% of the Japan properties, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and we continue to manage the properties. During 2009, we recognized net gains of $35.3 million related to the contribution of properties ($13.0 million), the recognition of previously deferred gains from PEPR and ProLogis Korea Fund on properties they sold to third parties ($9.9 million), the sale of land parcels ($6.4 million), and a gain on settlement of an obligation to our fund partner in connection with the restructure of one of our Americas funds ($6.0 million). The contribution activity resulted in total cash proceeds of $643.7 million and included 43 properties aggregating 9.2 million square feet to PEPF II. If we realize a gain on contribution or sale of a property to an unconsolidated investee, we recognize the portion attributable to the third party ownership in the entity. If we realize a loss on contribution, we recognize the full amount as soon as it is known. Due to our continuing involvement through our ownership in the co investment venture, these dispositions are not included in discontinued operations. Foreign Currency Exchange and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net We and certain of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries may have intercompany or third party debt that is not denominated in the entitys functional currency. When the debt is remeasured against the functional currency of the entity, a gain or loss may result. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity when appropriate. Certain of our intercompany debt is remeasured with the resulting adjustment recognized as a cumulative translation adjustment in Foreign Currency Translation Gains (Losses), Net in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). This treatment is applicable to intercompany debt that is deemed to be long term in nature. If the intercompany debt is deemed short term in nature, when the debt is remeasured, we recognize a gain or loss in earnings. We recognized net foreign currency exchange losses of $5.9 million and losses of $11.5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and gains of $58.2 million in 2009, related to the remeasurement of debt. Predominantly the gains or losses recognized in earnings relate to the remeasurement of intercompany loans between the U.S. parent and certain consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and Europe and result from fluctuations in the exchange rates of U.S. dollars to the euro, Japanese yen, British pound sterling and Singapore dollar. In addition, we recognized net foreign currency exchange gains of $2.1 million and $0.4 million and losses of $22.6 million from the settlement of transactions with third parties during December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger and the exchange offer discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, our convertible senior notes became exchangeable senior notes issued by the Operating Partnership that are exchangeable into common stock of the REIT. As a result, the accounting for the exchangeable senior notes has changed and, we are now required to separate the fair value of the derivative instrument (exchange feature) from the debt instrument and account for it separately as a derivative. We adjust the derivative instrument at each reporting period to fair value with the resulting adjustment being recorded in earnings. In 2011, we recognized an unrealized gain of $45.0 million. Gains (Losses) on Early Extinguishment of Debt, Net During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we purchased portions of several series of senior notes, senior exchangeable notes and Eurobonds outstanding and extinguished some secured mortgage debt prior to maturity, which resulted in the recognition of gains of $0.3 million in 2011, losses of $201.5 million in 2010, and gains of $172.3 million in 2009. The gains or losses represent the difference between the recorded debt (net of premiums and discounts and including related debt issuance costs) and the consideration we paid to retire the debt, including fees. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information regarding our debt repurchases. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit (Expense) During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our current income tax expense was $21.6 million, $21.7 million and $29.3 million, respectively. We recognize current income tax expense for income taxes incurred by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as certain state taxes. We also include in current income tax expense the interest associated with our liability for uncertain tax positions. Our current income tax expense fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income and changes in tax and interest rates. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $19.8 million, $52.2 million and $23.3 million, respectively. Deferred income tax expense is generally a function of the periods temporary differences and the utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in certain of our taxable subsidiaries operating in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions. The deferred tax benefit recorded during 2010 is primarily due to impairment charges recorded to the book basis of real estate properties and investments in unconsolidated investees, net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards recorded for certain jurisdictions, and the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to built in gains. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a deferred income tax benefit of approximately $27.5 million resulting from the conversion of two of our European management companies to taxable entities. This conversion was approved by the applicable tax authorities in June 2010 and created an asset for tax purposes that will be utilized against future taxable income as it is amortized. The deferred tax benefit was partially offset by an increase to the valuation allowance in certain jurisdictions because we could not sustain a conclusion that it was more likely than not that we could realize the deferred tax assets and NOL carryforwards. Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations represent a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations of the entity as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations of the component of the entity that has been classified as discontinued operations are reported separately in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land subject to ground leases and 94, 205 and 140 properties, respectively, to third parties that met the requirements to be classified as discontinued operations. Therefore, the results of operations for these disposed properties are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented, along with the gains recognized during the period. See Notes 4 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Foreign Currency Translation (Losses), Net For our consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, we translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars at the time we consolidate those subsidiaries financial statements. Generally, assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments, due to the fluctuations in exchange rates from the beginning of the period to the end of the period, are included in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). During 2011, we recorded unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $171.0 million that related to foreign currency translations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. The euro and pound sterling remained relatively flat from December 31, 2010 to December, 31 2011, but both weakened to the U.S. dollar from the Merger and PEPR Acquisition date to December 31, 2011. These losses were offset slightly by the strengthening of the yen to the U.S. dollar during 2011. During 2010, we recognized unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $42.3 million related to foreign currency translations of our international business units into U.S. dollars upon consolidation, mainly as a result of the yen strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and pound sterling, from the beginning of the year to December 31, 2010. During 2009, we recognized unrealized net gains in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $59.9 million. This includes $209.2 million in gains, mainly as a result of the strengthening of the British pound sterling to the U.S. dollar offset partially by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and yen. These gains were offset by a decrease in other comprehensive income of $149.3 million, as a result of the sale of our China operations and our investments in the Japan property funds in February 2009, and represents the gains previously included as currency translation adjustments. 32 Table of Contents Portfolio Information Our total owned and managed portfolio of properties includes operating industrial properties and does not include properties under development, properties held for sale or non industrial properties and was as follows as of December 31 (square feet in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Consolidated 1,797 291,051 985 168,547 1,215 192,637 Unconsolidated 1,403 267,752 1,179 255,367 1,289 274,617 Totals 3,200 558,803 2,164 423,914 2,504 467,254 Same Store Analysis We evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and manage using a same store analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, thereby eliminating the effects of changes in the composition of the portfolio on performance measures. We include properties owned by us, and properties owned by the unconsolidated co investment ventures (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us (referred to as unconsolidated investees), in our same store analysis. We have defined the same store portfolio, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, as those properties that were in operation at January 1, 2010 and also December 31, 2011, including completed development properties. We have removed all properties that were disposed of to a third party or were classified as held for sale from the population for both periods. We believe the factors that impact rental income, rental expenses and net operating income in the same store portfolio are generally the same as for the total portfolio. In order to derive an appropriate measure of period to period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the current exchange rate to translate from local currency into U.S. dollars, for both periods. The same store portfolio included 538.4 million of aggregated square feet. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental income, rental expenses and net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses) for the full year, as included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8, to the respective amounts in our same store portfolio analysis. Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full Year 2011 Rental income $ 199,129 $ 285,339 $ 449,787 $ 442,581 $ 1,376,836 Rental expenses 61,875 79,261 125,216 118,300 384,652 Net operating income $ 137,254 $ 206,078 $ 324,571 $ 324,281 $ 992,184 2010 Rental income $ 181,526 $ 182,116 $ 188,347 $ 192,551 $ 744,540 Rental expenses 54,503 52,321 55,254 53,130 215,208 Net operating income $ 127,023 $ 129,795 $ 133,093 $ 139,421 $ 529,332 33 Table of Contents For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 2010 PercentageChange Rental Income (1)(2) Consolidated: Rental income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 442,581 $ 192,551 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (28,913) (9,157) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (235) 918 Unconsolidated investees: Rental income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 377,646 330,928 Rental income of AMB properties pre Merger 269,106 Same store portfolio rental income (2)(3) $ 791,079 $ 784,346 0.9% Rental Expenses (1)(4) Consolidated: Rental expenses per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 118,300 $ 53,130 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental expenses of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (16,663) (6,328) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other 7,410 5,496 Unconsolidated investees: Rental expenses of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 100,814 79,677 Rental expense of AMB properties pre Merger 73,734 Adjusted same store portfolio rental expenses (3)(4) $ 209,861 $ 205,709 2.0% Net Operating Income (1) Consolidated: Net operating income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 324,281 $ 139,421 Adjustments to derive same store results: Net operating income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (12,250) (2,829) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (7,645) (4,578) Unconsolidated investees: Net operating income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 276,832 251,251 Net operating income of AMB properties pre Merger 195,372 Adjusted same store portfolio net operating income (3) $ 581,218 $ 578,637 0.4% (1) As discussed above, our same store portfolio includes industrial properties from our consolidated portfolio and owned by the unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us. In addition, we have included the properties owned and managed by AMB as of January 1, 2010 that we still own at December 31, 2011 in the same store portfolio. During the periods presented, certain properties owned by us were contributed to an unconsolidated investee and are included in the same store portfolio on an aggregate basis. Neither our consolidated results nor that of the unconsolidated investees, when viewed individually, would be comparable on a same store basis due to the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to period (for example, the results of a contributed property would be included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the results of the unconsolidated investee subsequent to the contribution date). (2) We exclude the net termination and renegotiation fees from our same store rental income to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each propertys rental income without regard to items that are not indicative of the propertys recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, offset by the write off of the asset recognized due to the adjustment to straight line rents over the lease term. The adjustments to remove these items are included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the tables above. 34 Table of Contents (3) These amounts include rental income, rental expenses and net operating income of both our consolidated industrial properties and those owned by our unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) and managed by us. (4) Rental expenses in the same store portfolio include the direct operating expenses of the property such as property taxes, insurance, utilities, etc. In addition, we include an allocation of the property management expenses for our direct owned properties based on the property management fee that is provided for in the individual management agreements under which our wholly owned management companies provide property management services to each property (generally, the fee is based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, the management fee income earned by the management companies and the management fee expense recognized by the properties are eliminated and the actual costs of providing property management services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expenses. These expenses fluctuate based on the level of properties included in the same store portfolio and any adjustment is included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the above table. Environmental Matters A majority of the properties acquired by us were subjected to environmental reviews either by us or the previous owners. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We record a liability for the estimated costs of environmental remediation to be incurred in connection with certain operating properties we acquire, as well as certain land parcels we acquire in connection with the planned development of the land. The liability is established to cover the environmental remediation costs, including cleanup costs, consulting fees for studies and investigations, monitoring costs and legal costs relating to cleanup, litigation defense, and the pursuit of responsible third parties. We purchase various environmental insurance policies to mitigate our exposure to environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, dispositions of properties and from available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition, operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements. Near Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses In addition to dividends to the common and preferred stockholders of the REIT and distributions to the limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, we expect our primary cash needs will consist of the following: completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (a); investments in current or future unconsolidated investees, primarily for the development and or acquisition of properties depending on market and other conditions (b); development of new properties for long term investment; repayment of debt, including payments on our credit facilities and repurchases of senior notes and or exchangeable senior notes; scheduled consolidated debt principal payments in 2012 of $1.2 billion; capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties; depending on market and other conditions, acquisition of operating properties and or portfolios of operating properties in global or regional markets for direct, long term investment (this might include acquisitions from our co investment ventures); and merger integration and transition expenses. (a) As of December 31, 2011, we had 30 properties in our development portfolio that were 49.8% leased with a current investment of $860.5 million and a total expected investment of $1.2 billion when completed and leased, leaving $306.4 million remaining to be spent. (b) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for discussion of the capital commitments of certain co investment ventures. We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources, all subject to market conditions: available unrestricted cash balances ($176.1 million at December 31, 2011); property operations; 35 Table of Contents fees and incentives earned for services performed on behalf of the co investment ventures and distributions received from the co investment ventures; proceeds from the disposition of properties, land parcels or other investments to third parties; proceeds from the contributions or sales of properties to co investment ventures; borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements discussed below ($1.2 billion available as of December 31, 2011), other facilities or borrowing arrangements; proceeds from the issuance of equity securities; and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities, including secured mortgage debt. We may repurchase our outstanding debt securities through cash purchases, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. Such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Debt In 2012 we have scheduled debt maturities of $1.2 billion, including $361 million of our consolidated but not wholly owned entities. We expect to pay these maturities with proceeds from the disposition of properties and available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. These covenants include customary financial covenants for total debt ratios, encumbered debt ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Credit Facilities On June 3, 2011, we entered into a global senior credit facility (Global Facility), pursuant to which the Operating Partnership and certain subsidiaries and affiliates may obtain loans and or procure the issuance of letters of credit in various currencies on a revolving basis in an aggregate amount. The loans cannot exceed $1.71 billion (subject to currency fluctuations) and may be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars and British pounds. We may increase availability under the Global Facility to $2.75 billion, subject to currency fluctuations and obtaining additional lender commitments. The Global Facility is scheduled to mature on June 3, 2015, but the Operating Partnership may, at its option and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date of the Global Facility to June 3, 2016. Pricing under the Global Facility, including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies based upon the public debt ratings of the Operating Partnership. The Global Facility contains customary representations, covenants and defaults (including a cross acceleration to other recourse indebtedness of more than $50 million). In addition, on June 3, 2011, we entered into a Yen revolver (the Revolver), which has a total borrowing capacity of &yen;36.5 billion (approximately $471.3 million at December 31, 2011). The Revolver matures on March 1, 2014, but we may, at our option and subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date to February 27, 2015. We may increase availability under the Revolver to an amount not exceeding &yen;56.5 billion (approximately $729.6 million at December 31, 2011), subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. Pricing under the Revolver is consistent with the Global Facility pricing. The Revolver contains certain customary representations, covenants and defaults that are substantially the same as the corresponding provisions of the Global Facility. We refer to the Global Facility and Revolver collectively as Credit Facilities. Information related to our Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2011 is as follows (dollars in millions): Aggregate lender commitments $ 2,184.6 Less: Borrowings outstanding (934.9) Outstanding letters of credit (85.0) Current availability $ 1,164.7 On February 2, 2012, we entered into a senior term loan agreement where we may obtain loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed 487.5 million (approximately $634 million). The loans can be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and British pounds sterling. We may increase the borrowings to approximately 987.5 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. The loan agreement is scheduled to mature on February 2, 2014, but we may extend the maturity date three times, in each case up to one year, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee. We used the proceeds from this senior term loan to pay off the two outstanding term loans assumed in connection with the Merger and the remainder to pay down borrowings on the Credit Facilities. 36 Table of Contents Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co Investment Ventures Certain co investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. We may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. Our venture partners fulfill their equity commitment with cash. We are committed to offer to contribute certain properties that we develop and stabilize in select markets in Europe and Mexico to certain co investment ventures. These ventures are committed to acquire such properties, subject to certain exceptions, including that the properties meet certain specified leasing and other criteria, and that the ventures have available capital. Generally the venture obtains financing for the properties and therefore the equity commitment is less than the acquisition price of the real estate. We are not obligated to contribute properties at a loss. Depending on market conditions, the investment objectives of the ventures, our liquidity needs and other factors, we may make contributions of properties to these ventures through the remaining commitment period. The following table is a summary of remaining equity commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in millions): Equity commitments Expiration date for remainingcommitments Prologis SGP Mexico (1) Prologis $ 24.6 (1 ) Venture Partner $ 98.1 Prologis Europe Logistics Venture 1 (2) Prologis $ 79.5 February 2014 Venture Partner $ 450.9 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 Prologis $ 71.0 March 2015 Venture Partner $ 402.1 Total Unconsolidated Prologis $ 175.1 Venture Partners $ 951.1 Prologis Brazil Logistics Partners Fund Prologis $ 149.2 December 2013 Venture Partner $ 149.2 Total Consolidated Prologis $ 149.2 Venture Partners $ 149.2 Grand Total Prologis $ 324.3 Venture Partners $ 1,100.3 (1) These equity commitments will be called only to pay outstanding debt of the venture. The debt is due in the third quarter of 2012, with an option to extend until the third quarter of 2013. (2) Equity commitments are denominated in euro and reported above in U.S. dollars. In addition to the co investment ventures listed above, we obtained additional equity commitments of 82 million (approximately $110.3 million) from our partners in October 2011 in an unconsolidated co investment venture, Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund. This equity was called in October 2011 to cover the acquisition of properties from us. One of our unconsolidated co investment ventures, Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund, used its remaining equity commitments in the fourth quarter of 2011 to cover the acquisition of 40 properties from us. For more information on our investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $207.1 million, $240.8 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash provided by operating activities was less than the cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests by $224.4 million, $66.9 million and $209.7 million, respectively. We used proceeds from the disposition of real estate properties ($1.6 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009) to fund dividends on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests not covered by cash flows from operating activities. 37 Table of Contents Cash Investing and Cash Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, investing activities used net cash of $233.1 million and provided net cash of $733.3 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: We generated cash from contributions and dispositions of properties and land parcels of $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we contributed and disposed of land, land subject to ground leases and 169 properties that included the majority of our non core assets. In 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land and 214 and 183 properties, respectively. We invested $1.2 billion, $543.9 million and $1.3 billion in real estate during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; including costs for current and future development projects and recurring capital expenditures and tenant improvements on existing operating properties. In 2011, we acquired eight properties with an aggregate purchase price of $86.5 million. In connection with the Merger, we acquired $234.0 million in cash in 2011. During the second quarter 2011, we used $1.0 billion of cash to purchase units in PEPR (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). The acquisition was funded with borrowings on a new 500 million bridge facility (PEPR Bridge Facility) that was put in place for the acquisition and borrowings under our credit facilities. The borrowings on the PEPR Bridge Facility were repaid with proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering. We invested cash of $37.8 million, $335.4 million and $401.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in unconsolidated investees including investments in connection with property contributions we made, net of repayment of advances by the investees. We received distributions from unconsolidated investees as a return of investment and proceeds from the sale of our investments of $170.2 million, $220.2 million and $81.2 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we received $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our China operations and our property fund interests in Japan. The proceeds were used to pay down borrowings on our Credit Facilities. We generated net cash proceeds from payments on notes receivable of $6.5 million, $18.4 million and $12.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the first quarter of 2011, we invested $55.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of the buyer of a portfolio of non core assets. In 2010, we invested $188.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of a buyer of a portfolio of assets and we purchased an $81.0 million loan to ProLogis North American Industrial Fund II from the lender. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, financing activities provided net cash of $163.3 million and used net cash of $969.8 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: In 2011, we repurchased and extinguished $894.5 million of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes and secured mortgage debt for a total of $894.2 million. In 2010, we repurchased and extinguished $3.0 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $3.1 billion. In 2009, we repurchased and extinguished $1.5 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $1.2 billion. In 2011, we incurred $577.9 million in secured mortgage debt and borrowed $721.0 million on the PEPR Bridge Facility. In 2010, we issued $1.1 billion of senior notes due 2017 and 2020 and $460.0 million of exchangeable senior notes due 2015. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our Credit Facilities. We also incurred $300.3 million in secured mortgage debt. In 2009, we issued $950.0 million of senior notes and $498.9 million of secured mortgage debt. We had net payments on our credit facilities of $37.6 million, $246.3 million and $2.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger, we repaid the outstanding balance under our existing global line of credit and entered into new Credit Facilities. In 2011, we used $711.8 million in proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering to repay the amounts borrowed under the PEPR Bridge Facility. In addition, we made net payments of $263.7 million, $257.5 million and $351.8 million on regularly scheduled debt principal and maturity payments during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This includes the repayment of 101.3 million ($146.8 million) of the euro notes that matured in April 2011. In June 2011, we completed the 2011 Equity Offering and issued 34.5 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. In November of 2010, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 41.1 million common shares. In April 2009, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 78.0 million common shares. We generated proceeds from the sale and issuance of common stock under our various common share plans of $30.8 million and $337.4 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily from our at the market equity issuance program. We had minimal activity in 2011. The at the market equity program was terminated in connection with the Merger. 38 Table of Contents We paid distributions of $387.1 million, $280.7 million and $271.8 million to our common stockholders during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We paid dividends on our preferred stock of $27.0 million, $25.4 million and $25.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we received proceeds of $123.9 million from our noncontrolling interest partners, primarily for the purchase of real estate properties by our consolidated co investment venture, Mexico Fondo Logistico. In addition, we distributed $17.4 million to noncontrolling interests in 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures Debt We had investments in and advances to certain unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2011 of $2.4 billion. These unconsolidated ventures had total third party debt of $9.3 billion (in the aggregate, not our proportionate share) at December 31, 2011 that matures as follows (in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Discount/ Premium Total (1) Prologis California LLC $ $ $ 137.5 $ $ 52.5 $ 120.0 $ $ 310.0 Prologis North American Properties Fund I 108.7 108.7 Prologis North American Properties Fund XI 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund 52.0 80.0 108.7 444.0 559.5 1,244.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund II (2) 159.6 75.3 476.1 74.8 136.5 325.7 (4.7) 1,243.3 Prologis North American IndustrialFund III (3) 203.5 385.6 146.4 280.0 (1.4) 1,014.1 Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund 42.6 188.8 102.5 280.7 158.6 810.0 15.2 1,598.4 Prologis Mexico Industrial Fund 214.1 214.1 Prologis SGP Mexico (4) 62.4 3.7 3.9 4.1 144.8 218.9 Prologis European Properties Fund II (5) 13.6 485.4 223.5 462.3 229.8 209.3 1,623.9 Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund 9.3 9.4 388.7 226.9 2.3 2.4 12.8 651.8 Prologis Japan Fund 1 (6) 218.5 529.5 1.8 120.7 81.5 9.4 961.4 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 100.0 100.0 Total property funds $ 870.9 $ 1,758.1 $ 1,478.6 $ 1,159.3 $ 1,389.2 $ 2,602.5 $ 31.4 $ 9,290.0 (1) As of December 31, 2011, we had guaranteed $6.9 million of the third party debt of the co investment ventures. In our role as the manager, we work with the co investment ventures to refinance their maturing debt. There can be no assurance that the co investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of the ventures also have credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds. Generally, the co investment ventures issue long term debt and utilize the proceeds to repay borrowings under the credit facilities. (2) In February 2012, we bought out our partner and own 100% of this venture and will begin consolidating. In connection with this transaction, we repaid the loan this venture had to our partner of $334.6 million. We had a note receivable from this fund of $78.9 million that will now eliminate in consolidation. (3) We have a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $21.4 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. In February 2012, this loan payable to us and loans from Prologis North American Industrial Fund III payable to our partner were restructured into equity according to our ownership percentages. This resulted in additional equity to us of approximately $25 million. (4) Through the Merger we acquired a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $19.8 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. This venture has capital commitments from us and our partner that we expect to be used to repay this debt maturing in 2012. (5) PEPF II has a 150 million ($196.1 million) credit facility. The facility is denominated in euro and pound sterling. (6) The debt included in 2012 maturities is due October 2012. The co investment venture expects to re finance the debt in the first half of 2012. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Long Term Contractual Obligations We had long term contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than5 years Debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities $ 10,387 $ 1,220 $ 3,272 $ 2,130 $ 3,765 Interest on debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities 2,506 532 862 585 527 Unfunded commitments on the development portfolio (1) 306 306 Operating lease payments 331 26 44 33 228 Amounts due on Credit Facilities 935 291 644 Interest on Credit Facilities 70 16 47 7 Totals $ 14,535 $ 2,100 $ 4,516 $ 3,399 $ 4,520 (1) We had properties in our development portfolio (completed and under development) at December 31, 2011 with a total expected investment of $1.2 billion. The unfunded commitments presented include not only those costs that we are obligated to fund under construction contracts, but all costs necessary to place the property into service, including the estimated costs of tenant improvements, marketing and leasing costs which we will incur as the property is leased. Other Commitments On a continuing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition and or disposition of individual properties or portfolios of properties. Distribution and Dividend Requirements Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure we will meet the dividend requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to meet other needs such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.25 (adjusted by Merger exchange ratio) per common share for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash dividend of $0.28 per common share for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2011. A cash distribution of $0.28 for the first quarter of 2012 was declared on February 22, 2012. This distribution will be paid on March 30, 2012 to holders of common shares on March 12, 2012. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. At December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding. The annual dividend rates on preferred stock are 6.5% per Series L share, 6.75% per Series M share, 7.0% per Series O share, 6.85% per Series P share, 8.54% per Series Q share, 6.75% per Series R share and 6.75% per Series S share. The Series Q, R and S were preferred shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis prior to the Merger and distributions on those shares have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 through December 31, 2011. The dividends on the remaining preferred stock have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the Merger. The dividends on preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock has been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. Critical Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of an entitys financial condition and results of operations and requires judgment on the part of management. Generally, the judgment requires management to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are prepared using managements best judgment, after considering past and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, those presented below have been identified by us as critical accounting policies. 40 Table of Contents Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We assess the carrying values of our respective long lived assets, including goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we consider current market conditions, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Our intent with regard to the underlying assets might change as market conditions change, as well as other factors, especially in the current global economic environment. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques; including discounted cash flow models, applying a capitalization rate to estimated net operating income of a property, quoted market values and third party appraisals, where considered necessary. The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the real estate property. We use a two step approach to our goodwill impairment evaluation. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify whether there is any potential impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its corresponding book value, including goodwill, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed. The second step requires that we compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Assumptions and estimates used in the recoverability analyses for future cash flows, discount rates and capitalization rates are complex and subjective. Changes in economic and operating conditions or our intent with regard to our investment that occurs subsequent to our impairment analyses could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment of our real estate properties and or goodwill. Other than Temporary Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Investees When circumstances indicate there may have been a reduction in the value of an equity investment, we evaluate whether the loss in value is other than temporary. If we determine there is a loss in value that is other than temporary, we recognize an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. The use of projected future cash flows and other estimates of fair value, the determination of when a loss is other than temporary, and the calculation of the amount of the loss, is complex and subjective. Use of other estimates and assumptions may result in different conclusions. Changes in economic and operating conditions, as well as changes in our intent with regard to our investment, that occur subsequent to our review could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment charges of our equity investments. Revenue Recognition Gains on Disposition of Real Estate We recognize gains from the contributions and sales of real estate assets, generally at the time the title is transferred, consideration is received and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. In many of our transactions, an entity in which we have an ownership interest will acquire a real estate asset from us. We make judgments based on the specific terms of each transaction as to the amount of the total profit from the transaction that we recognize given our continuing ownership interest and our level of future involvement with the investee that acquires the assets. We also make judgments regarding recognition in earnings of certain fees and incentives based on when they are earned, fixed and determinable. Business Combinations We acquire individual properties, as well as portfolios of properties, or businesses. When we acquire a business or individual operating properties, with the intention to hold the investment for the long term, we allocate the purchase price to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The components typically include land, building, debt, intangible assets related to above and below market leases, value of costs to obtain tenants, deferred tax liabilities and other assumed assets and liabilities in the case of an acquisition of a business. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value and often times is based upon the expected future cash flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located. The fair value may also include an enterprise value premium that we estimate a third party would be willing to pay for a portfolio of properties. The initial allocation of the purchase price is based on managements preliminary assessment, which may differ when final information becomes available. Subsequent adjustments made to the initial purchase price allocation are made within the allocation period, which typically does not exceed one year. Consolidation We consolidate all entities that are wholly owned and those in which we own less than 100% but control, as well as any variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. We evaluate our ability to control an entity and whether the entity is a variable interest entity and we are the primary beneficiary through consideration of the substantive terms of the arrangement to identify which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impacts the entitys economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Investments in entities in which we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are presented under the equity method. Investments in entities that we do not control and over which we do not exercise significant influence are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, as appropriate. Our ability to correctly assess our influence and or control over an entity affects the presentation of these investments in our consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents Capitalization of Costs and Depreciation We capitalize costs incurred in developing, renovating, rehabilitating, and improving real estate assets as part of the investment basis. Costs incurred in making repairs and maintaining real estate assets are expensed as incurred. During the land development and construction periods, we capitalize interest costs, insurance, real estate taxes and certain general and administrative costs of the personnel performing development, renovations, and rehabilitation if such costs are incremental and identifiable to a specific activity to get the asset ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of real estate assets. We also capitalize costs incurred to successfully originate a lease that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition of that lease. Leasing costs that meet the requirements for capitalization are presented as a component of other assets. We estimate the depreciable portion of our real estate assets and related useful lives in order to record depreciation expense. Our ability to estimate the depreciable portions of our real estate assets and useful lives is critical to the determination of the appropriate amount of depreciation expense recorded and the carrying value of the underlying assets. Any change to the assets to be depreciated and the estimated depreciable lives of these assets would have an impact on the depreciation expense recognized. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income tax liability, the liability associated with open tax years that are under review and our compliance with REIT requirements. Our estimates are based on interpretation of tax laws. We estimate our actual current income tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for book and tax purposes resulting in the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. These estimates may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in assessments of the recognition of income tax benefits for certain non routine transactions, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, our inability to qualify as a REIT, the potential for built in gain recognition, changes in the assessment of properties to be contributed to taxable REIT subsidiaries and changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included within income tax expense. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Funds from Operations (FFO) FFO is a non GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) has published a definition of FFO, which was amended in late 2011, further modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business. FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance. NAREITs FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation, gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated properties. We agree that these NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons: historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP assumes, through depreciation charges, that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. NAREIT stated in its White Paper on FFO since real estate asset values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Consequently, NAREITs definition of FFO reflects the fact that real estate, as an asset class, generally appreciates over time and depreciation charges required by GAAP do not reflect the underlying economic realities. REITs were created as a legal form of organization in order to encourage public ownership of real estate as an asset class through investment in firms that were in the business of long term ownership and management of real estate. The exclusion, in NAREITs definition of FFO, of gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated operating real estate assets allows investors and analysts to readily identify the operating results of the long term assets that form the core of a REITs activity and assists in comparing those operating results between periods. We include the gains and losses from dispositions of land and development properties in FFO. As a result, if we recognize impairment charges related to these types of properties, we also include the impairment charges in the calculation of FFO as defined by NAREIT. We exclude from FFO as defined by NAREIT gains and losses from dispositions of properties, other than land and development properties, which we refer to as Non FFO properties, as well as any related impairment charges. We include or exclude our share of these items recognized by our unconsolidated investees on the same basis. 42 Table of Contents Our FFO Measures At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community. We believe stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. We use these FFO measures, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties. The long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating our FFO measures are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long term outlook. We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs. FFO, as defined by Prologis: To arrive at FFO, as defined by Prologis, we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude: (i) deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries; (ii) current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the extent the expense is offset with a deferred income tax benefit in GAAP earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; (iii) foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from debt transactions between us and our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; (iv) foreign currency exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement (based on current foreign currency exchange rates) of certain third party debt of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; and (v) mark to market adjustments associated with derivative financial instruments. We calculate FFO, as defined by Prologis for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our FFO, as defined by Prologis. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Core FFO In addition to FFO, as defined by Prologis, we also use Core FFO. To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as defined by Prologis, to exclude the following recurring and non recurring items that we recognized directly or our share recognized by our unconsolidated investees to the extent they are included in FFO, as defined by Prologis: (i) gains or losses from acquisition, contribution or sale of land or development properties; (ii) income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate; (iii) impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate (either directly or through our investments in unconsolidated investees) generally as a result of our change in intent to contribute or sell these properties; (iv) impairment charges of goodwill and other assets; (v) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; (vi) merger, acquisition and other integration expenses; and (vii) expenses related to natural disasters We believe it is appropriate to further adjust our FFO, as defined by Prologis for certain recurring items as they were driven by transactional activity and factors relating to the financial and real estate markets, rather than factors specific to the on going operating performance of our properties or investments. The impairment charges we recognized were primarily based on valuations of real estate, which had declined due to market conditions, that we no longer expected to hold for long term investment. We currently have and have had over the past several years a stated priority to strengthen our financial position. We expect to accomplish this by reducing our debt, our investment in certain low yielding assets, such as land that we decide not to develop and our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. As a result, we have sold to third parties or contributed to unconsolidated investees real estate properties that, depending on market conditions, might result in a gain or loss. The impairment charges related to goodwill and other assets that we have recognized were similarly caused by the decline in the real 43 Table of Contents estate markets. Also in connection with our stated priority to reduce debt and extend debt maturities, we have purchased portions of our debt securities. As a result, we recognized net gains or losses on the early extinguishment of certain debt due to the financial market conditions at that time. We have also adjusted for some non recurring items. The merger, acquisition and other integration expenses include costs we incurred in 2011 and that we expect to incur in 2012 associated with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition and the integration of our systems and processes. We have not adjusted for the acquisition costs that we have incurred as a result of routine acquisitions but only the costs associated with significant business combinations that we would expect to be infrequent in nature. Similarly, the expenses related to the natural disaster in Japan that we recognized in 2011 are a rare occurrence but we may incur similar expenses again in the future. We analyze our operating performance primarily by the rental income of our real estate and the revenue driven by our private capital business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities. As a result, although these items have had a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal of the effects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. We use Core FFO, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; (v) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (vi) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties we own. As noted above, we believe the long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREITs nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, they are only part of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are: The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures represent the taxes that are payable. Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Further, the amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of industrial properties are not reflected in FFO. Gains or losses from property acquisitions and dispositions or impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent changes in the value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, our FFO measures do not capture realized changes in the value of acquired or disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions. The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures result from the creation of a deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our defined FFO measures do not currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures are generally recognized based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign currency denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements. The impairment charges of goodwill and other assets that we exclude from Core FFO, have been or may be realized as a loss in the future upon the ultimate disposition of the related investments or other assets through the form of lower cash proceeds. The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or cost to us as we may be settling our debt at less or more than our future obligation. The Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses and the natural disaster expenses that we exclude from Core FFO are costs that we have incurred. We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP. 44 Table of Contents FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares was $411.7 million, a negative $974.2 million and $185.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Core FFO attributable to common shares as defined by us was $593.9 million, $237.4 million and $416.7 million for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in Core FFO is primarily due to the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, both of which substantially increased our investments in real estate properties directly and through our unconsolidated investments as discussed earlier. The reconciliations of Core FFO and FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares to net earnings attributable to common shares computed under GAAP are as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 FFO: Reconciliation of net loss to FFO measures: Net loss attributable to common shares $ (188,110) $ (1,295,920) $ (2,650) Add (deduct) NAREIT defined adjustments: Real estate related depreciation and amortization 566,328 295,182 248,267 Impairment of non FFO operating properties 5,300 126,987 46,624 Net gains on dispositions of non FFO operating properties (39,812) (196,080) (168,177) Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests (19,889) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees 147,608 141,721 132,971 Subtotal NAREIT defined FFO 471,425 (928,110) 257,035 Add (deduct) our defined adjustments: Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net (39,034) 11,487 (58,128) Deferred income tax expense (benefit) (19,803) (52,223) (19,641) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees (900) (5,351) 6,243 FFO, as defined by Prologis 411,688 (974,197) 185,509 Impairment charges 145,028 1,110,072 448,612 Natural disaster expenses 5,210 Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses 140,495 Our share of losses (gains) on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net (115,577) (110,786) (65,587) Losses (gains) on early extinguishment of debt (258) 201,486 (172,258) Income tax expense on dispositions 7,331 10,783 20,466 Core FFO $ 593,917 $ 237,358 $ 416,742 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. We have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. We have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. The sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer term debt issuances. At December 31, 2011, we have &yen;61.1 billion ($788.4 million) in TMK bond agreements and a &yen;12.5 billion ($161.3 million) term loan with variable interest rates. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on &yen;21.8 billion ($281.2 million as of December 31, 2011) of the TMK bonds and the entire term loan for the term of the agreements. At December 31, 2011, we have also entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on 771.6 million ($1.0 billion) of secured debt, of which 743.6 million ($972.2 million) relates to PEPR, with variable interest rates. In 2011, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $870.9 million on our variable rate Credit Facilities. Based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, which assumed a 10% adverse change in interest rates, the estimated market risk exposure for the variable rate lines of credit was approximately $1.8 million of cash flow in 2011. 45 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars, principally euro, British pound sterling and yen. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. We also may use foreign currency put option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated investees. At December 31, 2011, we had no put option contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. At December 31, 2011, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our segment footnote Note22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments. Competition The existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge. To the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our Real Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital. We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our Global Customer Solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. Customers We have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. At December 31, 2011, in our Real Estate Operations segment, we had 3,163 customers occupying 266.0 million square feet of distribution space. In the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,476 customers occupying 249.3 million square feet of distribution space. In our Real Estate Operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 0.6% and 7.2%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2011. Within our Global Customer Solutions team, we develop long term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. Keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. Our in depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. Approximately 50.0 % of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country. In our Private Capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. As of December 31, 2011, we partnered with 117 investors, several of which invest in multiple funds. Employees We employ 1,457 persons in our entire organization. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (925 persons), in 15 countries in Europe (345 persons) and in three countries in Asia (187 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 862 employees to our Real Estate Operations segment and 67 employees to our Private Capital segment. We have 528 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. Managements Overview At the time of the Merger, we established key strategic priorities to guide our path over the next two years. These priorities are: to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; 5 Table of Contents to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the REIT industry; to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth; to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and to build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career. Align our Portfolio with our Investment Strategy Subsequent to the Merger, we performed a comprehensive review of our owned and managed portfolio, and categorized the portfolio into three main segments global, regional and other markets. Global markets represent approximately 83% of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). Regional markets represent 12% of our total owned and managed platform. We intend to hold only the highest quality class A product in our regional markets. We also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for 5% of our owned and managed platform and that we plan to exit from in an orderly fashion in the next few years. By segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a strategy that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit for the company. We expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt and to recycle capital into new development projects or strategic acquisitions. Strengthen our Financial Position We intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry. We expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will provide us with more financial flexibility and allow continued access to debt capital markets. This financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they become available. We expect to lower our currency exposure by owning assets outside the U.S. primarily in co investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. We will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co investment ventures. In addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. We will also reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currencies when appropriate. Streamline Private Capital Business We are rationalizing our private capital business in conjunction with our private capital investors. Some of our co investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. Therefore, we may terminate or restructure certain of these co investment ventures. In other cases, we may combine some co investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. In every case, however, we will work very closely with our partners and venture investors who will be active participants in these decisions. We plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co investment ventures and raising incremental capital for our existing co investment ventures. Improve the Utilization of Our Low Yielding Assets We plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to its historical average of 95% leased, completing the build out and lease up of our development projects as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties. Build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career We have identified more than $115 million of Merger cost synergies on an annualized basis, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. In addition, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise wide system that will include a property management/billing system, a human resources system, a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse. In connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality. We have implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees compensation to our performance. We believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of our 2011 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above. Code of Ethics and Business Conduct We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board and all of our officers and employees, including the principal co executive officers, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal 6 Table of Contents executive officers, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S K, will be disclosed on our website. Environmental Matters We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Insurance Coverage We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverages include property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, named windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly owned captive insurance entity. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. However, an uninsured loss could result in loss of capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. These risks include, among others: General Disruptions in the Global Capital and Credit Markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years. Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. To the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated investees, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated investees have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated investees to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees. As a result, we may not be able to recover the current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated investees, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings in addition to the charges we previously recognized. Any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. As a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2011, we generated approximately 41.9% or $642 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; 7 Table of Contents the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in Mexico); foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws. Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. At December 31, 2011, approximately 43.5% or $12.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, Japanese yen and British pound sterling. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios and results of operations. Although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and, on occasion and when deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. While we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. In the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Risks Related to our Business General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. We are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 23.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $4.9 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in California, which represented 18.8% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 20.8% of our annualized base rent. Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry 8 Table of Contents slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact Californias economic climate. Because of the number of properties we have located in California, a downturn in Californias economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, France, Japan, New Jersey/New York City, South Florida and the United Kingdom. Our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. In addition, our unconsolidated investees have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in Central and Eastern Pennsylvania, Germany, Mexico, Poland and Reno and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. A number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. International properties located in active seismic areas include Japan and Mexico. We generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. We have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in Japan based on this analysis. Further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and or flood risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. We and our unconsolidated investees currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. We believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated investees are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; 9 Table of Contents governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. Our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. Our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. Our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. Our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. We are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. In the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re lease spaces. A customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customers failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. In addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customers lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. If we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated investee or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. We may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated investees or third parties on a case by case basis. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. The unconsolidated investee or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. If we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratios, and the value of our securities. We may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. We may acquire industrial properties. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. Additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. Our real estate development strategies may not be successful. Our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated investee, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. We may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build out and leasing of our development platform. We may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in additional impairment charges; 10 Table of Contents development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of managements time and attention, diverting their attention from our day to day operations. We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos containing building materials. In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk adjusted return. In connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. We cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co investment ventures, investing in new or existing co investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co investment ventures. As of December 31, 2011, we have an investment in approximately 277.8 million square feet held through unconsolidated investees. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated investees, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. Our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. Our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated investees. Our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; 11 Table of Contents our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co investment venture to additional risk. We generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated investees to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of our insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. Risks Related to Financing and Capital We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. Our Global Senior Credit Agreement, Yen based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. In addition, our unconsolidated investees may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements, including our Global Senior Credit Agreement and Yen based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect 12 Table of Contents the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. We are dependent on external sources of capital. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, the REIT can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third party sources of capital. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the markets perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. Federal Income Tax Risks Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. The REIT elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code, commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 1997. We believe we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the REIT must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the Operating Partnership. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. If we lost our REIT status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co investment ventures. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service 13 Table of Contents would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Risks relating to the Merger The combined company may be unable to integrate its businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. On June 3, 2011, AMB and ProLogis completed the Merger. The Merger involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent public companies, each of which operated its own private capital platform focused on the industrial real estate sector and served as the sponsor or manager of, or in a similar capacity with respect to, numerous private equity investment vehicles. The combined company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the constituent companies. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the Merger; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel and systems from the two companies; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of managements attention caused by completing the Merger. For all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or the diversion of our resources to the integration process as we attempt to complete the integration process, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. Other Risks Risks Associated with our Dependence on Key Personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. In connection with the completion of the Merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. While we believe that we have retained our key talent and can find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition. Many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated investees and our properties. Changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. We consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. We do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. However, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties We are invested in real estate properties that are primarily generic industrial properties. In Japan, our industrial properties are generally multi level centers, which is common in Japan due to the high cost and limited availability of land. Our properties are typically used for distribution, storage, packaging, assembly and light manufacturing of consumer and industrial products. Based on the square footage of the operating properties included in our Real Estate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (and discussed below), our properties are 100% industrial properties; including 92.5% used for bulk distribution, 4.4% used for light manufacturing and assembly, 1.3% used for flex industrial, 1.0% used for on tarmac and 0.8% used for other purposes. Geographic Distribution Our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain. Our properties are primarily located in two main market types, global markets and regional markets. Global markets account for 85.4% of our consolidated operating properties (based on investment balance) and comprise approximately 30 of the largest and most liquid markets tied to global trade. These markets feature large population centers with high per capita consumption rates and close proximity to airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. Regional markets account for 10.6% of our consolidated operating properties. Similar to global markets, regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain and are often less supply constrained. 15 Table of Contents The information in the following tables is as of December 31, 2011 for our consolidated operating properties, properties in our development portfolio and land, including 375 buildings owned by entities we consolidate but of which we own less than 100%. All of these assets are included in our Real Estate Operations segment. This includes our portfolio of operating properties we developed or are currently developing. No individual property or group of properties operating as a single business unit amounted to 10% or more of our consolidated total assets at December 31, 2011 or generated income equal to 10% or more of our consolidated gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. These tables do not include properties that are owned by unconsolidated investees. Consolidated operating properties in the Real EstateOperations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): No. ofBldgs. PercentageOccupied (1) RentableSquareFootage InvestmentBeforeDepreciation Encumbrances(2) Americas: Global Markets: United States: Atlanta 67 83.6 % 9,419 $ 378,553 $ 52,400 Baltimore/Washington 35 94.1 % 4,041 246,877 13,876 Central & Eastern PA 9 98.7 % 3,794 192,602 Central Valley, CA 13 86.0 % 5,251 270,542 8,966 Chicago 143 92.8 % 24,576 1,404,575 187,225 Dallas/Fort Worth 112 92.8 % 15,963 701,177 66,365 Houston 56 99.1 % 4,665 169,948 9,350 New Jersey/New York City 115 89.8 % 13,234 1,034,141 133,736 San Francisco Bay Area 213 88.9 % 17,233 1,677,961 126,837 Seattle 27 93.3 % 3,488 320,240 13,165 South Florida 65 92.1 % 6,298 649,979 40,317 Southern California 185 95.9 % 32,235 2,998,831 309,721 On Tarmac 29 92.2 % 2,354 266,237 9,064 Canada 14 91.7 % 4,690 472,823 Mexico 61 91.7 % 10,399 588,178 170,352 Regional and Other Markets United States: Austin 9 97.3 % 1,006 59,934 Boston 26 94.4 % 3,336 178,437 10,549 Charlotte 13 97.5 % 1,641 61,044 17,663 Cincinnati 16 94.7 % 2,513 85,053 22,015 Columbus 24 93.2 % 5,143 202,636 29,222 Denver 20 94.5 % 3,563 206,437 32,971 El Paso 8 84.6 % 931 33,437 Indianapolis 11 98.7 % 1,274 42,625 4,950 Las Vegas 8 78.6 % 840 47,398 Louisville 8 98.6 % 2,707 102,734 Memphis 17 91.0 % 4,094 123,802 Minneapolis 6 84.8 % 1,303 53,161 Nashville 22 80.6 % 2,032 57,109 Orlando 23 72.6 % 2,648 158,027 Phoenix 20 88.6 % 2,348 116,419 Portland 11 94.5 % 1,374 94,221 18,338 Reno 11 93.3 % 2,184 94,701 10,108 San Antonio 30 88.5 % 3,056 117,804 3,183 Savannah 1 61.0 % 346 16,847 St. Louis 6 88.6 % 685 24,158 Tampa 11 82.7 % 837 35,279 8,696 Subtotal Americas 1,445 92.0 % 201,501 13,283,927 1,299,069 Europe: Global Markets: Belgium 6 99.5 % 1,497 119,143 33,369 France 82 92.7 % 22,116 1,707,371 253,774 Germany 36 93.3 % 6,104 456,527 62,042 Netherlands 22 91.4 % 4,623 367,640 56,338 Poland 45 81.1 % 10,125 570,561 145,083 Spain 21 79.8 % 5,529 505,549 44,006 United Kingdom 38 91.2 % 7,172 688,122 153,495 Regional and Other Markets: Austria 1 100.0 % 115 10,192 Czech Republic 20 83.4 % 4,056 302,457 44,033 Hungary 19 85.0 % 3,171 180,581 8,629 Italy 23 89.0 % 7,400 473,225 104,525 Romania 4 98.6 % 1,160 52,662 Slovakia 1 100.0 % 287 16,656 Sweden 5 100.0 % 2,285 193,691 Subtotal Europe 323 89.3 % 75,640 5,644,377 905,294 16 Table of Contents Consolidated operating properties in the Real EstateOperations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): No. ofBldgs. PercentageOccupied (1) RentableSquareFootage InvestmentBeforeDepreciation Encumbrances(2) Asia: Global Markets: China 7 96.1 % 1,750 54,669 Japan 17 94.3 % 11,218 2,429,412 782,422 Singapore 5 100.0 % 942 140,163 21,710 Subtotal Asia 29 94.9 % 13,910 2,624,244 804,132 Total operating properties 1,797 91.4 % 291,051 $ 21,552,548 $ 3,008,495 Investment in Land Development Portfolio Consolidated land and development portfolio in the RealEstate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): Acres Investment No. ofBldgs. PercentageLeased (1) RentableSquareFootage CurrentInvestment TotalExpectedInvestment(3) Americas: Global Markets: United States: Atlanta 732 $28,003 $ $ Baltimore/Washington 106 14,868 2 171 7,540 15,583 Central & Eastern PA 339 29,354 Central Valley 188 17,005 Chicago 638 60,090 Dallas/Ft. Worth 470 23,373 Houston 65 7,928 1 147 4,115 7,752 New Jersey/New York City 305 124,431 3 63.5 % 497 45,142 66,078 Seattle 15 2,121 South Florida 377 141,581 1 190 3,456 15,912 Southern California 779 121,810 2 686 46,838 60,978 Canada 230 92,034 Mexico 1,021 221,568 5 60.9 % 817 34,408 49,960 Regional and Other Markets: United States: Boston 18 7,114 Central Florida 147 26,336 Charlotte Greenville 20 1,359 Cincinnati 75 4,915 Columbus 199 6,692 Denver 66 8,315 El Paso 16 953 Indianapolis 127 4,469 Jacksonville 103 10,929 Las Vegas 66 7,561 Louisville 13 425 Memphis 159 6,452 Norfolk 84 7,814 Phoenix 148 7,608 Portland 23 2,572 Reno 173 9,882 Savannah 229 13,082 Subtotal Americas 6,931 1,010,644 14 32.4 % 2,508 141,499 216,263 17 Table of Contents Investment in Land Development Portfolio Consolidated land and development portfolio in theReal Estate Operations segment at December 31, 2011 (dollars and rentable square footage in thousands): Acres Investment No. ofBldgs. PercentageLeased (1) RentableSquareFootage CurrentInvestment TotalExpectedInvestment(3) Europe: Global Markets: Belgium 30 10,298 France 396 68,434 2 43.9 % 506 28,340 37,301 Germany 203 50,475 4 58.3 % 766 34,581 64,963 Netherlands 63 57,384 Poland 893 116,942 2 50.6 % 407 19,469 29,390 Spain 100 19,586 United Kingdom 981 243,325 1 100.0 % 458 37,716 42,720 Regional and Other Markets: Austria 28 13,976 Czech Republic 308 45,249 1 100.0 % 314 17,572 18,369 Hungary 338 46,716 Italy 114 33,589 Romania 90 12,436 Slovakia 108 18,591 Subtotal Europe 3,652 737,001 10 67.2 % 2,451 137,678 192,743 Asia: Global Markets: China 42 11,467 Japan 98 225,121 6 50.1 % 4,478 581,354 757,888 Subtotal Asia 140 236,588 6 50.1 % 4,478 581,354 757,888 Total land and development portfolio 10,723 $ 1,984,233 30 49.8 % 9,437 $ 860,531 $ 1,166,894 The following is a summary of our investment in consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2011: Investment BeforeDepreciation(in thousands) Industrial properties $ 21,552,548 Development portfolio 860,531 Land 1,984,233 Other real estate investments (4) 390,225 Total $ 24,787,537 (1) Represents the percentage occupied for our operating properties and leased for the properties in the development portfolio at December 31, 2011. Operating properties at December 31, 2011 include completed development properties that may be in the initial lease up phase, which reduces the overall leased percentage. (2) Certain properties are pledged as security under our secured mortgage debt and assessment bonds at December 31, 2011. For purposes of this table, the total principal balance of a debt issuance that is secured by a pool of properties is allocated among the properties in the pool based on each propertys investment balance. In addition to the amounts reflected here, we also have a $12.6 million in encumbrances related to our development portfolio and $147.1 million of encumbrances related to other real estate properties not included in the Real Estate Operations segment. See Schedule III Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional identification of the properties pledged. (3) Represents the total expected investment when the property under development is completed and leased. This includes the cost of land, development and leasing costs. (4) Included in other investments are: (i) certain other non industrial real estate; (ii) our corporate office buildings; (iii) land subject to ground leases; (iv) certain infrastructure costs related to projects we are developing on behalf of others; (v) costs incurred related to future development projects, including purchase options on land; and (vi) earnest money deposits associated with potential acquisitions. Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures At December 31, 2011, we had an investment in properties through our unconsolidated co investment ventures that we also managed of 1,403 properties with 267.8 million square feet and a total entity investment of $21.3 billion. See further discussion in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we and our unconsolidated investees are parties to a variety of legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that, with respect to any such matters that we are currently a party to, the ultimate disposition of any such matter will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. In December 2011, arbitration hearings began in connection with a dispute related to a real estate development project known as Pacific Commons. The plaintiff, Cisco Technology, Inc. (Cisco), is seeking rescission of a 2007 Restructuring and Settlement Agreement (the Contract) and other agreements, and declaratory relief, and damages for breach of the Contract. Specifically, Cisco seeks (1) declaratory relief that Prologis owes certain Community Facilities District taxes that have been assessed against Ciscos land, following Ciscos purchase of the land from Prologis through the exercise of option agreements; (2) declaratory relief that Prologis partial transfers of rights and obligations under the Contract to third parties are void; and (3) damages for alleged breaches of the Contract relating to the plans to build a baseball stadium at Pacific Commons. Although the total damages alleged by Cisco are approximately $200 million, we believe these claims are without merit and are defending these matters vigorously. Based on the facts and circumstances surrounding this dispute, we believe the low end of our range of loss is zero and therefore, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), we have not recorded any liability with respect to this matter as of December 31, 2011. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol PLD. The following table sets forth the high and low sale price of the common stock of the REIT (AMB pre merger), as reported in the NYSE Composite Tape, and the declared dividends per common share, for the periods indicated. High Low Dividends (1) 2010 First Quarter (1) $ 29.60 $ 21.80 $ 0.28 Second Quarter (1) 29.17 23.14 0.28 Third Quarter (1) 26.97 22.05 0.28 Fourth Quarter (1) 32.18 26.14 0.28 2011 First Quarter (1) $ 36.47 $ 31.75 $ 0.28 Second Quarter (1) 37.44 31.76 0.28 Third Quarter 37.46 23.94 0.28 Fourth Quarter 30.56 21.74 0.28 2012 First Quarter (through February 22) $ 34.73 $ 28.16 $ 0.28 (2) (1) The per share sale price and dividends are different than the amounts disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The difference is due to the distinction between legal and accounting acquirer. The pre Merger information presented is historical AMB amounts as it was the legal acquirer. (2) Declared on February 22, 2012 and payable on March 30, 2012 to holders of record on March 12, 2012. On February 22, 2012, we had approximately 458,974,100 shares of common stock outstanding, which were held of record by approximately 6,700 stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following line graph compares the change in the REITs cumulative total stockholders return on shares of its common stock from December 31, 2006 to the cumulative total return of the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in the common stock of the REIT (AMB pre Merger) and each of the indices on December 31, 2006 and, as required by the SEC, the reinvestment of all dividends. The return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance. *$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright &copy; 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. This graph and the accompanying text are not soliciting material, are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by reference in any filing by the company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. Dividends In order to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, we are generally required to make common and preferred stock dividends (other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders in amounts that together at least equal (i) the sum of (a) 90% of our REIT taxable income computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains and (b) 90% of the net income (after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus (ii) certain excess non cash income. Our common stock distribution policy is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow that ensures that we will meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and that allows us to also retain cash to meet other needs, such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.1125 per common share (or $0.25 after being adjusted by the Merger exchange ratio) for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is considered the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash distribution of $0.28 per common share for the third quarter on September 30, 2011 and for the fourth quarter on December 29, 2011. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board of Directors (Board) upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. In addition to common stock, at December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding (Series L Preferred Stock, Series M Preferred Stock, Series O Preferred Stock, Series P Preferred Stock, Series Q Preferred Stock, Series R Preferred Stock and Series S Preferred Stock). The Series Q, R and S Preferred Stock was issued in connection with the Merger and exchanged for the outstanding C, F and G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis, respectively. 20 Table of Contents Holders of each series of preferred stock outstanding have limited voting rights, subject to certain conditions, and are entitled to receive cumulative preferential dividends based upon each series respective liquidation preference. Dividends for Series Q, R and S are payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December. Dividends for Series L, M, O and P are payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of April, July, October and January. Dividends on preferred stock are payable when, and if, they have been declared by the Board, out of funds legally available for payment of dividends. After the respective redemption dates, each series of preferred stock can be redeemed at our option. The cash redemption price (other than the portion consisting of accrued and unpaid dividends) with respect to Series Q Preferred Stock is payable solely out of the cumulative sales proceeds of other capital shares of ours, which may include shares of other series of preferred stock. With respect to the payment of dividends, each series of preferred stock ranks on parity with our other series of preferred stock. The following table sets forth the Companys dividends paid or payable per share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: Years Ended December 31, 2011(1) 2010(1) Series L Preferred stock $ 1.63 $ 1.63 Series M Preferred stock $ 1.69 $ 1.69 Series O Preferred stock $ 1.75 $ 1.75 Series P Preferred stock $ 1.71 $ 1.71 Series Q Preferred stock (2) $ 3.20 n/a Series R Preferred stock (2) $ 1.27 n/a Series S Preferred stock (2) $ 1.27 n/a (1) The dividends are different than the amounts disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The difference is due to the distinction between legal and accounting acquirer. The pre Merger information presented is historical AMB amounts as it was the legal acquirer. (2) The Series Q, R and S Preferred Stock was issued in connection with the Merger and exchanged for the outstanding C, F and G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis, respectively. Amounts reflect actual dividends paid or payable during 2011 subsequent to the Merger. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. For more information regarding our dividends, see Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans see Notes 11 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Stockholder Matters Common Stock Plans See our 2012 Proxy Statement or our subsequent amendment of this Form 10 K for further information relative to our equity compensation plans. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial data related to our historical financial condition and results of operations for 2011 and the four preceding years. As previously discussed, since ProLogis was the accounting acquirer in the Merger, the historical results of ProLogis are included for the entire period presented and AMBs results are included subsequent to the Merger. Certain amounts for the years prior to 2011 presented in the table below have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 financial statement presentation and to reflect discontinued operations. The amounts in the table below are in millions, except for per share amounts. REIT Years Ended December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Total revenues (2) $ 1,533 $ 885 $ 1,027 $ 5,369 $ 5,917 Total expenses (2) $ 1,406 $ 1,486 $ 1,072 $ 4,878 $ 4,907 Operating income (loss) (2)(3) $ 127 $ (601) $ (45) $ 491 $ 1,010 Interest expense $ 469 $ 461 $ 373 $ 384 $ 388 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (3) $ (244) $ (1,589) $ (355) $ (367) $ 841 Discontinued operations (3) $ 87 $ 319 $ 379 $ (83) $ 216 Consolidated net earnings (loss) (3) $ (158) $ (1,270) $ 24 $ (450) $ 1,058 Net earnings (loss) attributable to common shares (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Basic: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 7.07 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.89 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Basic (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.96 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Diluted: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 6.84 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.81 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shares Diluted (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.65 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic (4) 371 220 180 117 115 Diluted (4) 371 220 180 117 119 Common Share Distributions: Common share cash distributions paid $ 387 $ 281 $ 272 $ 543 $ 473 Common share distributions per share (4) $ 1.06 $ 1.25 $ 1.57 $ 4.63 $ 4.12 FFO (5): Reconciliation of net earnings (loss) to FFO: Net earnings (loss) attributable to common shares (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Total NAREIT defined adjustments (6) 660 368 260 449 150 Total our defined adjustments (60) (46) (71) 164 28 FFO attributable to common shares as defined by Prologis $ 412 $ (974) $ 186 $ 134 $ 1,206 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities (2) $ 207 $ 241 $ 89 $ 888 $ 1,230 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (2) $ (233) $ 733 $ 1,235 $ (1,347) $ (4,076) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 163 $ (970) $ (1,463) $ 358 $ 2,742 22 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 (6) 2007 (6) Financial Position: Real estate properties, excluding land, before depreciation $ 22,803 $ 11,346 $ 12,606 $ 13,234 $ 14,414 Land $ 1,984 $ 1,534 $ 2,574 $ 2,483 $ 2,153 Net investments in properties $ 22,630 $ 11,284 $ 13,508 $ 14,134 $ 15,199 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees $ 2,858 $ 2,025 $ 2,107 $ 2,195 $ 2,252 Total assets $ 27,724 $ 14,903 $ 16,797 $ 19,210 $ 19,652 Total debt $ 11,382 $ 6,506 $ 7,978 $ 10,711 $ 10,217 Total liabilities $ 13,268 $ 7,382 $ 8,790 $ 12,452 $ 11,848 Noncontrolling interests $ 794 $ 15 $ 20 $ 20 $ 79 Stockholders equity $ 13,662 $ 7,505 $ 7,987 $ 6,738 $ 7,725 Number of common shares outstanding (4) 459 254 212 119 115 Operating Partnership Years Ended December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating Data: Total revenues (2) $ 1,533 $ 885 $ 1,027 $ 5,369 $ 5,917 Total expenses (2) $ 1,406 $ 1,486 $ 1,072 $ 4,878 $ 4,907 Operating income (loss) (2)(3) $ 127 $ (601) $ (45) $ 491 $ 1,010 Interest expense $ 469 $ 461 $ 373 $ 384 $ 388 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (3) $ (244) $ (1,589) $ (355) $ (367) $ 841 Discontinued operations (3) $ 87 $ 319 $ 379 $ (83) $ 216 Consolidated net earnings (loss) (3) $ (158) $ (1,270) $ 24 $ (450) $ 1,058 Net earnings (loss) attributable to common unitholders (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Basic: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 7.07 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.89 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Basic (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.96 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Diluted: Continuing operations (4) $ (0.74) $ (7.35) $ (2.12) $ (3.38) $ 6.84 Discontinued operations (4) 0.23 1.45 2.11 (0.70) 1.81 Net earnings (loss) per unit attributable to common unitholders Diluted (3)(4) $ (0.51) $ (5.90) $ (0.01) $ (4.08) $ 8.65 Weighted average common units outstanding: Basic (4) 372 220 180 117 115 Diluted (4) 372 220 180 117 119 Common Unit Distributions: Common unit cash distributions paid $ 388 $ 281 $ 272 $ 543 $ 473 Common unit distributions per unit (4) $ 1.06 $ 1.25 $ 1.57 $ 4.63 $ 4.12 FFO (5): Reconciliation of net earnings (loss) to FFO: Net earnings (loss) attributable to common units (3) $ (188) $ (1,296) $ (3) $ (479) $ 1,028 Total NAREIT defined adjustments (6) 660 368 260 449 150 Total our defined adjustments (60) (46) (71) 164 28 FFO attributable to common units as defined by Prologis $ 412 $ (974) $ 186 $ 134 $ 1,206 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities (2) $ 207 $ 241 $ 89 $ 888 $ 1,230 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (2) $ (233) $ 733 $ 1,235 $ (1,347) $ (4,076) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 163 $ (970) $ (1,463) $ 358 $ 2,742 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011 (1) 2010 2009 2008 (6) 2007 (6) Financial Position: Real estate properties, excluding land, before depreciation $ 22,803 $ 11,346 $ 12,606 $ 13,234 $ 14,414 Land $ 1,984 $ 1,534 $ 2,574 $ 2,483 $ 2,153 Net investments in properties $ 22,630 $ 11,284 $ 13,508 $ 14,134 $ 15,199 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees $ 2,858 $ 2,025 $ 2,107 $ 2,195 $ 2,252 Total assets $ 27,724 $ 14,903 $ 16,797 $ 19,210 $ 19,652 Total debt $ 11,382 $ 6,506 $ 7,978 $ 10,711 $ 10,217 Total liabilities $ 13,268 $ 7,382 $ 8,790 $ 12,452 $ 11,848 Noncontrolling interests $ 735 $ 15 $ 20 $ 20 $ 79 Partners capital $ 13,721 $ 7,505 $ 7,987 $ 6,738 $ 7,725 Number of common units outstanding (4) 461 254 212 119 115 (1) In 2011, we completed the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information). Activity in 2011 includes seven months of results in connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. (2) During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we contributed certain properties with any resulting gain or loss reflected as net gains in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and as cash provided by investing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In 2008 and previous years, we reflected these contributions as gross revenues and expenses and as cash provided by operating activities. See our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. (3) During 2011, we recognized impairment charges of $23.9 million on certain real estate properties, which includes $2.7 million in Discontinued Operations, and $126.4 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $824.3 million on certain of our real estate properties, which includes $87.7 million in Discontinued Operations, and $412.7 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $331.6 million on certain of our real estate properties and $163.6 million related to goodwill and other assets. During 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $274.7 million on certain of our real estate properties and $320.6 million related to goodwill and other assets. In addition, during 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $198.2 million in Discontinued Operations related to the net assets of our China operations that were reclassified as held for sale and our share of impairment charges recorded by an unconsolidated investee of $108.2 million. We did not recognize any impairment in 2007. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. (4) The historical shares of ProLogis were adjusted by the Merger exchange ratio of 0.4464 for all periods presented. As a result, the per share/unit calculations and shares/units outstanding were also adjusted. (5) See definition of Funds From Operations (FFO) in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (6) In 2011, the definition of NAREIT defined FFO was amended, according to which impairment write downs of depreciable real estate should be excluded in the computation of FFO. As a result, NAREIT defined adjustments were adjusted for the impairment charge on certain real estate properties for all periods presented. Amounts of impairment excluded from the calculation of FFO were $5.3 million, $127.0 million and $46.6 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no impairment amounts excluded from the calculation of FFO in 2008. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company We are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated ventures, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises. Of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2011: approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2% occupied; approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased; 24 Table of Contents approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and non industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio. Prologis, Inc. is a self administered and self managed real estate investment trust, and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. We operate the REIT and the Operating Partnership as one enterprise, and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to the REIT and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, collectively. On June 3, 2011, we completed the Merger in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of AMB common stock for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis. Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Therefore, pre Merger activity included in the Management Discussion and Analysis is the activity of ProLogis and does not include AMB results until June 3, 2011. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating PEPR. We have recorded the purchase price allocations for both the Merger of $5.9 billion and PEPR Acquisition of $1.6 billion in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not provide as meaningful of information as if those transactions were reflected in both periods. As a result of this Merger, we have identified more than $115 million on an annualized basis of merger cost synergies, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Business Strategy Our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Private Capital. We generate revenues, earnings, net operating income, and funds from operations, both as defined below, and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as follows: Real Estate Operations Segment Rental Operations This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or FFO as defined below). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company. Capital Deployment Activities Our development and re development activities support our rental operations and are, therefore, included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co investment ventures for long term hold, for contribution into one of our co investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan, we are developing directly while in emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co investment ventures. Private Capital Segment We co invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co investment ventures. We have a direct and long standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital in both close ended and open ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10 50% in the ventures. We believe our co investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co investment partners interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third party capital in our existing ventures. In 2009, we recognized income in the CDFS business segment related to gains from the Japan property funds that were deferred upon original contributions and triggered with the sale of our investments. We no longer have a CDFS business segment. 25 Table of Contents Summary of 2011 During the year ended December 31, 2011, we completed the following activities in support of our strategic priorities: Completed the Merger on June 3, 2011 and have completed the majority of the integration activities. Completed the PEPR Acquisition in May 2011. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we increased our debt to $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we have reduced our debt to $11.4 billion due primarily to repayments that were funded with proceeds from dispositions of properties. As of June 30, 2011 our total owned and managed portfolio, including consolidated and unconsolidated properties, was 90.7% occupied and 91.3% leased. As a result of significant leasing activity in the second half of 2011 we increased to 92.2% occupied and 92.5% leased, as of December 31, 2011. Issued 34.5 million shares of common stock in a public offering at a price of $33.50 per share, generating approximately $1.1 billion in net proceeds (2011 Equity Offering) in late June 2011. Entered into a new global senior credit agreement, terminated our existing global line of credit and amended a yen revolving credit agreement. Completed an exchange offer in June 2011 for ProLogis senior notes and exchangeable senior notes. Operational Outlook Despite the ongoing slowdown in the global economic recovery, fourth quarter real estate fundamentals in the U.S. industrial markets continued to improve consistent with the improvement we saw in the third quarter. Though down from its rebound third quarter level, net absorption of U.S. industrial space measured 28 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Net absorption has been positive for the last six consecutive quarters, reducing the availability rate by 90 basis points during that time. At 13.6%, availability is at its lowest level since the second quarter of 2009. Net effective rent has made modest improvements, and as a result, some speculative development is beginning in selected locations such as Miami, Washington D.C., Seattle, Southern California, and Houston. Though economic growth remains relatively moderate, inventories continue to rise, and utilization rates have been on an overall upward trajectory since late 2010. In the U.S., net absorption totaled more than 117 million square feet in 2011, representing a remarkable improvement over the past few years, and we expect net absorption of 150 175 million square feet in 2012. Within Europe and Japan, we believe significant supply chain reconfiguration, the ongoing globalization of Central and Eastern Europe, obsolescence and strong tenant preference to rent rather than own will fuel additional demand for industrial space. Moreover, the undersupply of Class A distribution space in Japan has and will continue to create demand for more modern, earthquake resistant product, especially as Japan rebuilds and regroups from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, which temporarily interrupted its supply chain. Demand in emerging markets where we have investments primarily through our co investment ventures, such as Brazil, China, and Mexico, remains strong. In our total owned and managed operating portfolio, which includes properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated co investment ventures that are accounted for under the equity method and including properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 138.8 million square feet of space in 2011. Excluding the properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 119.4 million square feet of space during the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective rental rates on leases signed during the fourth quarter of 2011 in our same store portfolio (as defined below) decreased by 4.5% when compared with the rental rates on the previous leases on that same space. The total owned and managed portfolio was 92.2% occupied at December 31, 2011, up from 89.0% at December 31, 2010. Our existing customers renewed their leases 74.7% of the time in 2011 as compared with 79.5% in 2010. We believe that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and we are currently evaluating multiple opportunities in our global and regional markets around the globe. Our development business consists of speculative development, build to suit development, value added coversions and redevelopment. We expect to develop directly and within the co investment structures depending on location, market conditions, submarkets or building sites, and availability of capital. We believe that developing, redeveloping and or expanding of well located, high quality industrial properties provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from purchasing existing properties. However, development projects may require significant management attention and capital investment to maximize returns. During 2011, in response to this emerging demand, we (including ProLogis, AMB pre Merger, and unconsolidated entities) commenced development of 42 properties totaling 10.8 million square feet with a total expected investment of $1.0 billion. Of this amount, $863.5 million is our share and $153.2 million is the share of our co investment venture partners. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary The following table illustrates the net operating income for each of our segments, along with the reconciling items to Loss from Continuing Operations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net operating income real estate operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 Net operating income private capital segment 82,657 81,867 101,547 Net operating income CDFS business segment 180,237 General and administrative expenses (195,161) (165,981) (192,231) Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses (140,495) Impairment of real estate properties (21,237) (736,612) (331,592) Depreciation and amortization (585,323) (311,268) (266,364) Earnings from unconsolidated investees, net 59,935 23,678 28,059 Interest expense (468,738) (461,166) (372,768) Impairment of goodwill and other assets (126,432) (412,745) (163,644) Interest and other income (expense), net 12,008 15,847 (39,349) Gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net 111,684 28,488 35,262 Foreign currency exchange and derivative gains (losses), net 41,172 (11,081) 35,626 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 258 (201,486) 172,258 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,776) 30,499 (5,975) Loss from continuing operations $ (244,459) $ (1,589,462) $ (355,089) See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our segments and a reconciliation of net operating income to Loss Before Income Taxes. Real Estate Operations Segment The net operating income of the Real Estate Operations segment consisted of rental income and rental expenses from industrial properties that we own and consolidate and is impacted by our capital deployment activities. The size and percentage of occupancy of our consolidated operating portfolio fluctuates due to the timing of acquisitions, development activity and contributions. Such fluctuations affect the net operating income we recognize in this segment in a particular period. Also included in this segment is revenue from land we own and lease to customers under ground leases and development management and other income, offset by acquisition costs and land holding costs. As discussed earlier, results for 2011 included approximately seven months of rental income and expenses from the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. The results of properties that were sold to third parties are presented as Discontinued Operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for all periods and therefore do not impact the segment results. The net operating income from the Real Estate Operations segment for the years ended December 31, was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Rental and other income $ 1,395,672 $ 762,061 $ 701,971 Rental and other expenses 408,683 231,563 238,126 Total net operating income Real Estate Operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 The increases in rental income and rental expenses in 2011 from 2010 are due principally to the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition, increased occupancy in our consolidated operating portfolio (from 85.9% at December 31, 2010 to 91.4% at December 31, 2011) and the completion and stabilization of new development properties. The results for 2011 include approximately seven months of rental income and rental expenses from properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition of $565.5 million and $147.6 million, respectively. In our consolidated portfolio, we leased 63.4 million square feet in 2011 compared to 57.3 million square feet in 2010. The increase in net operating income in 2010 over 2009 is due primarily to increased occupancy in the development portfolio. We calculate the change in effective rental rates on the previous leases on that same space for leases signed during a quarter, based on our same store portfolio (as defined below). During 2011 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 8.9% to a decrease of 4.5%. During 2010 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 15.7% to a decrease of 8.5%. The decrease was due to: (i) leases turning that were put in place when market rents were at or near peak; and (ii) decreased market rents. Under the terms of our lease agreements, we are able to recover the majority of our rental expenses from customers. Rental expense recoveries, included in both rental income and rental expenses, were $283.1 million, $161.0 million and $150.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Our consolidated operating portfolio as of December 31 was as follows (square feet in thousands): Number ofProperties Square Feet Leased % 2011 (1) 1,797 291,051 91.7% 2010 985 168,547 87.6% 2009 1,188 191,623 82.7% (1) The amount at December 31, 2011 included 848 properties with 126.3 million square feet that were acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Private Capital Segment The net operating income of the Private Capital segment consisted of fees and incentives earned for services performed for our unconsolidated investees and certain third parties, reduced by our direct costs of managing these entities and the properties they own. The direct costs associated with our Private Capital segment totaled $55.0 million, $40.7 million and $43.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in the line item Private Capital Expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8. These expenses include the direct expenses associated with the asset management of the unconsolidated co investment ventures provided by individuals who are assigned to our Private Capital segment. In addition, in order to achieve efficiencies and economies of scale, all of our property management functions are provided by a team of professionals who are assigned to our Real Estate Operations segment. These individuals perform the property level management of the properties in our owned and managed portfolio including properties we consolidate and the properties we manage that are owned by the unconsolidated investees. We allocate the costs of our property management function to the properties we consolidate (reported in Rental Expenses) and the properties owned by the unconsolidated investees (included in Private Capital Expenses), by using the square feet owned by the respective portfolios. The increase in Private Capital Expenses in 2011 is due to the increased private capital platform and infrastructure that was part of the Merger, offset partially with a decline in the portion of our property management expenses that are allocated to this segment due to the consolidation of PEPR. The net operating income from the Private Capital segment for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Unconsolidated ventures: Americas (1) $ 42,644 $ 40,354 $ 44,284 Europe (2) 30,708 41,200 34,508 Asia (3) 9,305 313 22,755 Total net operating income Private Capital segment $ 82,657 $ 81,867 $ 101,547 (1) Represents the fees earned by us from 10, 10 and 12 unconsolidated co investment ventures for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reduced by private capital expenses. In connection with the Merger, we added three co investment ventures in the Americas (with investments in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil). In December 2010, we sold our interests in three U.S. co investment ventures. (2) Represents the fees earned by us from several different unconsolidated co investment ventures, reduced by private capital expenses. In 2011, we had one co investment venture during the entire year, we included PEPR up to the date we began consolidating at the end of May 2011, and added two co investment ventures acquired through the Merger. In 2010 and 2009, we had two co investment ventures for the entire year. (3) Represents the fees earned by us from our investments in three unconsolidated co investment ventures in 2011 and only one co investment venture in South Korea during 2010, reduced by private capital expenses. We sold our investment in the Korea co investment venture during the third quarter 2011. With the Merger, we acquired an investment in an unconsolidated co investment venture in each of Japan and China. In addition to the Korea co investment venture in 2009, we had two co investment ventures in Japan that were sold in February of 2009. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information on our unconsolidated investees. CDFS Business Segment Net operating income of the CDFS business segment for 2009 was $180.2 million. As previously discussed, our business strategy no longer includes the CDFS business segment. The amount in 2009 is the recognition of gains previously deferred from the contribution of properties and recognized due to the sale of our investments in the Japan co investment venture in February 2009. 28 Table of Contents Other Components of Income General and Administrative (G&A) Expense and Reduction in Workforce (RIF) G&A expenses for the years ended December 31 consisted of the following (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Gross G&A expense (1) $ 332,632 $ 266,932 $ 304,153 Reported as rental expenses (24,741) (19,709) (19,446) Reported as private capital expenses (54,962) (40,659) (43,416) Capitalized amounts (57,768) (40,583) (49,060) Net G&A $ 195,161 $ 165,981 $ 192,231 (1) 2009 included expenses related to a RIF program. At the end of 2008, in response to the difficult economic climate, we initiated G &A expense reductions. These initiatives included a RIF plan that had a total cost of $11.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in G&A expenses and the various components from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to the Merger, PEPR Acquisition and the larger infrastructure associated with our larger company. Overall G&A expense decreased from 2009 to 2010 due to lower gross G&A expense, as a result of the RIF program in 2009 and various cost savings measures, offset by lower capitalized G&A. Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses In connection with the Merger and other related activities, we have incurred significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; system conversion costs; and other integration costs. These costs are expensed as incurred. The costs that were obligations of AMB and expensed pre Merger are not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. At the time of the Merger, we terminated our existing credit facilities and wrote off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which are included as a merger expense. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR and the reduction in workforce charges associated with dispositions made in 2011. We expect to continue to recognize costs, primarily compensation and severance costs for transitional employees and system conversion and implementation costs through the end of 2012 as incurred. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during 2011 (in thousands): 2011 Termination, severance and transitional employee costs $ 58,445 Professional fees 46,467 Office closure, travel and other costs 24,714 Write off of deferred loan costs 10,869 Total $ 140,495 The majority of the costs incurred in 2011 were incurred during the second quarter of 2011 when the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition were completed. Impairment of Real Estate Properties During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized impairment charges of real estate properties in continuing operations of $21.2 million, $736.6 million and $331.6 million, respectively, due to our change of intent to no longer hold these assets for long term investment. In 2010, the charges primarily included land as a result of our change in strategy. Changes in economic and operating conditions and our ultimate investment intent with regard to our investments in real estate that occur in the future may result in additional impairment charges or gains at the time of sale. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more detail on the process we took to value these assets and the related impairments taken. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense was $585.3 million, $311.3 million and $266.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization expenses associated with the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (including intangible assets), completed and leased development properties and increased leasing activity. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to the completion, retention and leasing of our developed properties. 29 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense from continued operations, included the following components (in thousands) for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 Gross interest expense $ 500,685 $ 435,289 $ 382,362 Amortization of discount, net 228 47,136 67,542 Amortization of deferred loan costs 20,476 32,402 17,069 Interest expense before capitalization 521,389 514,827 466,973 Capitalized amounts (52,651) (53,661) (94,205) Net interest expense $ 468,738 $ 461,166 $ 372,768 Gross interest expense increased in 2011 from 2010 due primarily to higher debt levels as a result of the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, offset partially by decreased interest rates. The decrease in capitalized amounts in 2011 from 2010 was due to lower interest rates during 2011. During the first part of 2011, we had lower debt balances as a result of repayment and repurchases of debt made in 2010 with proceeds from asset sales and the November 2010 equity offering. We reduced our outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 to $6.5 billion. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we added approximately $5.9 billion of debt at fair value at the beginning of June 2011 and approximately seven months of related interest expense in 2011. At December 31, 2011, our debt balance was $11.4 billion, a decrease from $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011, primarily due to repayments funded by proceeds received from the dispositions of properties. All of these activities have resulted in a lower weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of premiums, discounts and deferred loan costs) of 5.58% in 2011, as compared with 6.48% in 2010. The increase in interest expense in 2010 over 2009 is due to increased borrowing rates and lower capitalization due to less development activity in 2010. In addition, in 2010 we wrote off $7.7 million in deferred loan costs based on the proportionate amount that we reduced our borrowing capacity on our global line of credit. The lower amortization of discount is due to the buyback of exchangeable debt that includes a non cash discount. Our weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred loan costs) was 5.34% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our future interest expense, both gross and the portion capitalized, will vary depending on, among other things, the level of our development activities, which we expect will increase subsequent to the Merger. See Notes 3 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion of our debt and borrowing costs. Earnings from Unconsolidated Investees, Net We recognized net earnings of $59.9 million, $23.7 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These earnings relate to our investment in unconsolidated investees that are accounted for on the equity method. The primary reason for the increase in 2011 over 2010 is due to the investments we acquired through the Merger, partially offset by the consolidation of PEPR. The earnings we recognize are impacted by: (i) variances in revenues and expenses of the entity; (ii) the size and occupancy rate of the portfolio of properties owned by the entity; (iii) our ownership interest in the entity; and (iv) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars, if applicable. We manage the majority of the properties in which we have an ownership interest as part of our total owned and managed portfolio. See discussion of our portfolio results in the section, Portfolio Information. See also Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets Based on our review of goodwill in 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $368.5 million related to goodwill allocated to the Real Estate Operations segment in the Americas and Europe reporting units. The review of goodwill was triggered by the strategic decision we made in the fourth quarter of 2010 to significantly downsize our development platform and, as a result, to sell to third parties certain other assets, some of which were acquired in the acquisitions that originally created the goodwill. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $126.4 million, $44.3 million and $163.6 million, respectively, on certain of our investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees, notes receivable and other assets, as we did not believe these amounts to be recoverable based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with these assets, including estimated sales proceeds or we believed the decline in fair value to be other than temporary. See Notes 2 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our process with regard to analyzing the recoverability of goodwill and other assets. Also see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our unconsolidated investees. 30 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net We recognized interest and other income not allocated to a segment of $12.0 million and $15.8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and other expense of $39.3 million in 2009. The primary components in 2009 were adjustments of $20.3 million to accruals we had related to rent indemnifications we had made to certain co investment ventures due to changes in leasing and other assumptions and settlement costs of $13.0 million related to an obligation we assumed in the 2005 acquisition of Catellus. Gains on Acquisitions and Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net During 2011, we recognized net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $111.7 million. This included gains recognized in the second quarter related to the PEPR Acquisition ($85.9 million) and the acquisition of our partners interest in a joint venture in Japan ($13.5 million) and the contribution or sale of properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The gains represent the adjustment to fair value of our equity investments at the time we gained control and consolidated the entities. The contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $590.8 million and net gains of $12.3 million. During 2010, we recognized net gains on dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $28.5 million, which related to the contribution of land and operating properties to unconsolidated investees ($58.3 million gain), additional proceeds from contributions we made to PEPF II in 2009 based on valuations received as of December 31, 2010 and our contribution agreement with the fund ($27.4 million gain) and the sale of land parcels to third parties ($7.4 million gain), offset by a loss of $64.6 million related to the sale of certain unconsolidated investees. The 2010 contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $469.7 million related to the contribution of development properties aggregating 2.1 million square feet and land to unconsolidated investees, and the sale of 90% of two development properties in Japan with 1.3 million square feet. We continue to own 10% of the Japan properties, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and we continue to manage the properties. During 2009, we recognized net gains of $35.3 million related to the contribution of properties ($13.0 million), the recognition of previously deferred gains from PEPR and ProLogis Korea Fund on properties they sold to third parties ($9.9 million), the sale of land parcels ($6.4 million), and a gain on settlement of an obligation to our fund partner in connection with the restructure of one of our Americas funds ($6.0 million). The contribution activity resulted in total cash proceeds of $643.7 million and included 43 properties aggregating 9.2 million square feet to PEPF II. If we realize a gain on contribution or sale of a property to an unconsolidated investee, we recognize the portion attributable to the third party ownership in the entity. If we realize a loss on contribution, we recognize the full amount as soon as it is known. Due to our continuing involvement through our ownership in the co investment venture, these dispositions are not included in discontinued operations. Foreign Currency Exchange and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net We and certain of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries may have intercompany or third party debt that is not denominated in the entitys functional currency. When the debt is remeasured against the functional currency of the entity, a gain or loss may result. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity when appropriate. Certain of our intercompany debt is remeasured with the resulting adjustment recognized as a cumulative translation adjustment in Foreign Currency Translation Gains (Losses), Net in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). This treatment is applicable to intercompany debt that is deemed to be long term in nature. If the intercompany debt is deemed short term in nature, when the debt is remeasured, we recognize a gain or loss in earnings. We recognized net foreign currency exchange losses of $5.9 million and losses of $11.5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and gains of $58.2 million in 2009, related to the remeasurement of debt. Predominantly the gains or losses recognized in earnings relate to the remeasurement of intercompany loans between the U.S. parent and certain consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and Europe and result from fluctuations in the exchange rates of U.S. dollars to the euro, Japanese yen, British pound sterling and Singapore dollar. In addition, we recognized net foreign currency exchange gains of $2.1 million and $0.4 million and losses of $22.6 million from the settlement of transactions with third parties during December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger and the exchange offer discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, our convertible senior notes became exchangeable senior notes issued by the Operating Partnership that are exchangeable into common stock of the REIT. As a result, the accounting for the exchangeable senior notes has changed and, we are now required to separate the fair value of the derivative instrument (exchange feature) from the debt instrument and account for it separately as a derivative. We adjust the derivative instrument at each reporting period to fair value with the resulting adjustment being recorded in earnings. In 2011, we recognized an unrealized gain of $45.0 million. Gains (Losses) on Early Extinguishment of Debt, Net During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we purchased portions of several series of senior notes, senior exchangeable notes and Eurobonds outstanding and extinguished some secured mortgage debt prior to maturity, which resulted in the recognition of gains of $0.3 million in 2011, losses of $201.5 million in 2010, and gains of $172.3 million in 2009. The gains or losses represent the difference between the recorded debt (net of premiums and discounts and including related debt issuance costs) and the consideration we paid to retire the debt, including fees. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information regarding our debt repurchases. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit (Expense) During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our current income tax expense was $21.6 million, $21.7 million and $29.3 million, respectively. We recognize current income tax expense for income taxes incurred by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as certain state taxes. We also include in current income tax expense the interest associated with our liability for uncertain tax positions. Our current income tax expense fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income and changes in tax and interest rates. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $19.8 million, $52.2 million and $23.3 million, respectively. Deferred income tax expense is generally a function of the periods temporary differences and the utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in certain of our taxable subsidiaries operating in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions. The deferred tax benefit recorded during 2010 is primarily due to impairment charges recorded to the book basis of real estate properties and investments in unconsolidated investees, net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards recorded for certain jurisdictions, and the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to built in gains. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a deferred income tax benefit of approximately $27.5 million resulting from the conversion of two of our European management companies to taxable entities. This conversion was approved by the applicable tax authorities in June 2010 and created an asset for tax purposes that will be utilized against future taxable income as it is amortized. The deferred tax benefit was partially offset by an increase to the valuation allowance in certain jurisdictions because we could not sustain a conclusion that it was more likely than not that we could realize the deferred tax assets and NOL carryforwards. Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations represent a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations of the entity as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations of the component of the entity that has been classified as discontinued operations are reported separately in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land subject to ground leases and 94, 205 and 140 properties, respectively, to third parties that met the requirements to be classified as discontinued operations. Therefore, the results of operations for these disposed properties are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented, along with the gains recognized during the period. See Notes 4 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Foreign Currency Translation (Losses), Net For our consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, we translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars at the time we consolidate those subsidiaries financial statements. Generally, assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments, due to the fluctuations in exchange rates from the beginning of the period to the end of the period, are included in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). During 2011, we recorded unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $171.0 million that related to foreign currency translations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. The euro and pound sterling remained relatively flat from December 31, 2010 to December, 31 2011, but both weakened to the U.S. dollar from the Merger and PEPR Acquisition date to December 31, 2011. These losses were offset slightly by the strengthening of the yen to the U.S. dollar during 2011. During 2010, we recognized unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $42.3 million related to foreign currency translations of our international business units into U.S. dollars upon consolidation, mainly as a result of the yen strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and pound sterling, from the beginning of the year to December 31, 2010. During 2009, we recognized unrealized net gains in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $59.9 million. This includes $209.2 million in gains, mainly as a result of the strengthening of the British pound sterling to the U.S. dollar offset partially by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and yen. These gains were offset by a decrease in other comprehensive income of $149.3 million, as a result of the sale of our China operations and our investments in the Japan property funds in February 2009, and represents the gains previously included as currency translation adjustments. 32 Table of Contents Portfolio Information Our total owned and managed portfolio of properties includes operating industrial properties and does not include properties under development, properties held for sale or non industrial properties and was as follows as of December 31 (square feet in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Consolidated 1,797 291,051 985 168,547 1,215 192,637 Unconsolidated 1,403 267,752 1,179 255,367 1,289 274,617 Totals 3,200 558,803 2,164 423,914 2,504 467,254 Same Store Analysis We evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and manage using a same store analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, thereby eliminating the effects of changes in the composition of the portfolio on performance measures. We include properties owned by us, and properties owned by the unconsolidated co investment ventures (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us (referred to as unconsolidated investees), in our same store analysis. We have defined the same store portfolio, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, as those properties that were in operation at January 1, 2010 and also December 31, 2011, including completed development properties. We have removed all properties that were disposed of to a third party or were classified as held for sale from the population for both periods. We believe the factors that impact rental income, rental expenses and net operating income in the same store portfolio are generally the same as for the total portfolio. In order to derive an appropriate measure of period to period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the current exchange rate to translate from local currency into U.S. dollars, for both periods. The same store portfolio included 538.4 million of aggregated square feet. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental income, rental expenses and net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses) for the full year, as included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8, to the respective amounts in our same store portfolio analysis. Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full Year 2011 Rental income $ 199,129 $ 285,339 $ 449,787 $ 442,581 $ 1,376,836 Rental expenses 61,875 79,261 125,216 118,300 384,652 Net operating income $ 137,254 $ 206,078 $ 324,571 $ 324,281 $ 992,184 2010 Rental income $ 181,526 $ 182,116 $ 188,347 $ 192,551 $ 744,540 Rental expenses 54,503 52,321 55,254 53,130 215,208 Net operating income $ 127,023 $ 129,795 $ 133,093 $ 139,421 $ 529,332 33 Table of Contents For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 2010 PercentageChange Rental Income (1)(2) Consolidated: Rental income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 442,581 $ 192,551 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (28,913) (9,157) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (235) 918 Unconsolidated investees: Rental income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 377,646 330,928 Rental income of AMB properties pre Merger 269,106 Same store portfolio rental income (2)(3) $ 791,079 $ 784,346 0.9% Rental Expenses (1)(4) Consolidated: Rental expenses per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 118,300 $ 53,130 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental expenses of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (16,663) (6,328) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other 7,410 5,496 Unconsolidated investees: Rental expenses of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 100,814 79,677 Rental expense of AMB properties pre Merger 73,734 Adjusted same store portfolio rental expenses (3)(4) $ 209,861 $ 205,709 2.0% Net Operating Income (1) Consolidated: Net operating income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 324,281 $ 139,421 Adjustments to derive same store results: Net operating income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (12,250) (2,829) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (7,645) (4,578) Unconsolidated investees: Net operating income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 276,832 251,251 Net operating income of AMB properties pre Merger 195,372 Adjusted same store portfolio net operating income (3) $ 581,218 $ 578,637 0.4% (1) As discussed above, our same store portfolio includes industrial properties from our consolidated portfolio and owned by the unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us. In addition, we have included the properties owned and managed by AMB as of January 1, 2010 that we still own at December 31, 2011 in the same store portfolio. During the periods presented, certain properties owned by us were contributed to an unconsolidated investee and are included in the same store portfolio on an aggregate basis. Neither our consolidated results nor that of the unconsolidated investees, when viewed individually, would be comparable on a same store basis due to the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to period (for example, the results of a contributed property would be included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the results of the unconsolidated investee subsequent to the contribution date). (2) We exclude the net termination and renegotiation fees from our same store rental income to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each propertys rental income without regard to items that are not indicative of the propertys recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, offset by the write off of the asset recognized due to the adjustment to straight line rents over the lease term. The adjustments to remove these items are included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the tables above. 34 Table of Contents (3) These amounts include rental income, rental expenses and net operating income of both our consolidated industrial properties and those owned by our unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) and managed by us. (4) Rental expenses in the same store portfolio include the direct operating expenses of the property such as property taxes, insurance, utilities, etc. In addition, we include an allocation of the property management expenses for our direct owned properties based on the property management fee that is provided for in the individual management agreements under which our wholly owned management companies provide property management services to each property (generally, the fee is based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, the management fee income earned by the management companies and the management fee expense recognized by the properties are eliminated and the actual costs of providing property management services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expenses. These expenses fluctuate based on the level of properties included in the same store portfolio and any adjustment is included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the above table. Environmental Matters A majority of the properties acquired by us were subjected to environmental reviews either by us or the previous owners. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We record a liability for the estimated costs of environmental remediation to be incurred in connection with certain operating properties we acquire, as well as certain land parcels we acquire in connection with the planned development of the land. The liability is established to cover the environmental remediation costs, including cleanup costs, consulting fees for studies and investigations, monitoring costs and legal costs relating to cleanup, litigation defense, and the pursuit of responsible third parties. We purchase various environmental insurance policies to mitigate our exposure to environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, dispositions of properties and from available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition, operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements. Near Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses In addition to dividends to the common and preferred stockholders of the REIT and distributions to the limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, we expect our primary cash needs will consist of the following: completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (a); investments in current or future unconsolidated investees, primarily for the development and or acquisition of properties depending on market and other conditions (b); development of new properties for long term investment; repayment of debt, including payments on our credit facilities and repurchases of senior notes and or exchangeable senior notes; scheduled consolidated debt principal payments in 2012 of $1.2 billion; capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties; depending on market and other conditions, acquisition of operating properties and or portfolios of operating properties in global or regional markets for direct, long term investment (this might include acquisitions from our co investment ventures); and merger integration and transition expenses. (a) As of December 31, 2011, we had 30 properties in our development portfolio that were 49.8% leased with a current investment of $860.5 million and a total expected investment of $1.2 billion when completed and leased, leaving $306.4 million remaining to be spent. (b) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for discussion of the capital commitments of certain co investment ventures. We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources, all subject to market conditions: available unrestricted cash balances ($176.1 million at December 31, 2011); property operations; 35 Table of Contents fees and incentives earned for services performed on behalf of the co investment ventures and distributions received from the co investment ventures; proceeds from the disposition of properties, land parcels or other investments to third parties; proceeds from the contributions or sales of properties to co investment ventures; borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements discussed below ($1.2 billion available as of December 31, 2011), other facilities or borrowing arrangements; proceeds from the issuance of equity securities; and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities, including secured mortgage debt. We may repurchase our outstanding debt securities through cash purchases, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. Such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Debt In 2012 we have scheduled debt maturities of $1.2 billion, including $361 million of our consolidated but not wholly owned entities. We expect to pay these maturities with proceeds from the disposition of properties and available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. These covenants include customary financial covenants for total debt ratios, encumbered debt ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Credit Facilities On June 3, 2011, we entered into a global senior credit facility (Global Facility), pursuant to which the Operating Partnership and certain subsidiaries and affiliates may obtain loans and or procure the issuance of letters of credit in various currencies on a revolving basis in an aggregate amount. The loans cannot exceed $1.71 billion (subject to currency fluctuations) and may be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars and British pounds. We may increase availability under the Global Facility to $2.75 billion, subject to currency fluctuations and obtaining additional lender commitments. The Global Facility is scheduled to mature on June 3, 2015, but the Operating Partnership may, at its option and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date of the Global Facility to June 3, 2016. Pricing under the Global Facility, including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies based upon the public debt ratings of the Operating Partnership. The Global Facility contains customary representations, covenants and defaults (including a cross acceleration to other recourse indebtedness of more than $50 million). In addition, on June 3, 2011, we entered into a Yen revolver (the Revolver), which has a total borrowing capacity of &yen;36.5 billion (approximately $471.3 million at December 31, 2011). The Revolver matures on March 1, 2014, but we may, at our option and subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date to February 27, 2015. We may increase availability under the Revolver to an amount not exceeding &yen;56.5 billion (approximately $729.6 million at December 31, 2011), subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. Pricing under the Revolver is consistent with the Global Facility pricing. The Revolver contains certain customary representations, covenants and defaults that are substantially the same as the corresponding provisions of the Global Facility. We refer to the Global Facility and Revolver collectively as Credit Facilities. Information related to our Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2011 is as follows (dollars in millions): Aggregate lender commitments $ 2,184.6 Less: Borrowings outstanding (934.9) Outstanding letters of credit (85.0) Current availability $ 1,164.7 On February 2, 2012, we entered into a senior term loan agreement where we may obtain loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed 487.5 million (approximately $634 million). The loans can be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and British pounds sterling. We may increase the borrowings to approximately 987.5 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. The loan agreement is scheduled to mature on February 2, 2014, but we may extend the maturity date three times, in each case up to one year, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee. We used the proceeds from this senior term loan to pay off the two outstanding term loans assumed in connection with the Merger and the remainder to pay down borrowings on the Credit Facilities. 36 Table of Contents Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co Investment Ventures Certain co investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. We may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. Our venture partners fulfill their equity commitment with cash. We are committed to offer to contribute certain properties that we develop and stabilize in select markets in Europe and Mexico to certain co investment ventures. These ventures are committed to acquire such properties, subject to certain exceptions, including that the properties meet certain specified leasing and other criteria, and that the ventures have available capital. Generally the venture obtains financing for the properties and therefore the equity commitment is less than the acquisition price of the real estate. We are not obligated to contribute properties at a loss. Depending on market conditions, the investment objectives of the ventures, our liquidity needs and other factors, we may make contributions of properties to these ventures through the remaining commitment period. The following table is a summary of remaining equity commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in millions): Equity commitments Expiration date for remainingcommitments Prologis SGP Mexico (1) Prologis $ 24.6 (1 ) Venture Partner $ 98.1 Prologis Europe Logistics Venture 1 (2) Prologis $ 79.5 February 2014 Venture Partner $ 450.9 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 Prologis $ 71.0 March 2015 Venture Partner $ 402.1 Total Unconsolidated Prologis $ 175.1 Venture Partners $ 951.1 Prologis Brazil Logistics Partners Fund Prologis $ 149.2 December 2013 Venture Partner $ 149.2 Total Consolidated Prologis $ 149.2 Venture Partners $ 149.2 Grand Total Prologis $ 324.3 Venture Partners $ 1,100.3 (1) These equity commitments will be called only to pay outstanding debt of the venture. The debt is due in the third quarter of 2012, with an option to extend until the third quarter of 2013. (2) Equity commitments are denominated in euro and reported above in U.S. dollars. In addition to the co investment ventures listed above, we obtained additional equity commitments of 82 million (approximately $110.3 million) from our partners in October 2011 in an unconsolidated co investment venture, Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund. This equity was called in October 2011 to cover the acquisition of properties from us. One of our unconsolidated co investment ventures, Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund, used its remaining equity commitments in the fourth quarter of 2011 to cover the acquisition of 40 properties from us. For more information on our investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $207.1 million, $240.8 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash provided by operating activities was less than the cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests by $224.4 million, $66.9 million and $209.7 million, respectively. We used proceeds from the disposition of real estate properties ($1.6 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009) to fund dividends on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests not covered by cash flows from operating activities. 37 Table of Contents Cash Investing and Cash Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, investing activities used net cash of $233.1 million and provided net cash of $733.3 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: We generated cash from contributions and dispositions of properties and land parcels of $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we contributed and disposed of land, land subject to ground leases and 169 properties that included the majority of our non core assets. In 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land and 214 and 183 properties, respectively. We invested $1.2 billion, $543.9 million and $1.3 billion in real estate during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; including costs for current and future development projects and recurring capital expenditures and tenant improvements on existing operating properties. In 2011, we acquired eight properties with an aggregate purchase price of $86.5 million. In connection with the Merger, we acquired $234.0 million in cash in 2011. During the second quarter 2011, we used $1.0 billion of cash to purchase units in PEPR (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). The acquisition was funded with borrowings on a new 500 million bridge facility (PEPR Bridge Facility) that was put in place for the acquisition and borrowings under our credit facilities. The borrowings on the PEPR Bridge Facility were repaid with proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering. We invested cash of $37.8 million, $335.4 million and $401.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in unconsolidated investees including investments in connection with property contributions we made, net of repayment of advances by the investees. We received distributions from unconsolidated investees as a return of investment and proceeds from the sale of our investments of $170.2 million, $220.2 million and $81.2 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we received $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our China operations and our property fund interests in Japan. The proceeds were used to pay down borrowings on our Credit Facilities. We generated net cash proceeds from payments on notes receivable of $6.5 million, $18.4 million and $12.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the first quarter of 2011, we invested $55.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of the buyer of a portfolio of non core assets. In 2010, we invested $188.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of a buyer of a portfolio of assets and we purchased an $81.0 million loan to ProLogis North American Industrial Fund II from the lender. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, financing activities provided net cash of $163.3 million and used net cash of $969.8 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: In 2011, we repurchased and extinguished $894.5 million of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes and secured mortgage debt for a total of $894.2 million. In 2010, we repurchased and extinguished $3.0 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $3.1 billion. In 2009, we repurchased and extinguished $1.5 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $1.2 billion. In 2011, we incurred $577.9 million in secured mortgage debt and borrowed $721.0 million on the PEPR Bridge Facility. In 2010, we issued $1.1 billion of senior notes due 2017 and 2020 and $460.0 million of exchangeable senior notes due 2015. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our Credit Facilities. We also incurred $300.3 million in secured mortgage debt. In 2009, we issued $950.0 million of senior notes and $498.9 million of secured mortgage debt. We had net payments on our credit facilities of $37.6 million, $246.3 million and $2.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger, we repaid the outstanding balance under our existing global line of credit and entered into new Credit Facilities. In 2011, we used $711.8 million in proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering to repay the amounts borrowed under the PEPR Bridge Facility. In addition, we made net payments of $263.7 million, $257.5 million and $351.8 million on regularly scheduled debt principal and maturity payments during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This includes the repayment of 101.3 million ($146.8 million) of the euro notes that matured in April 2011. In June 2011, we completed the 2011 Equity Offering and issued 34.5 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. In November of 2010, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 41.1 million common shares. In April 2009, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 78.0 million common shares. We generated proceeds from the sale and issuance of common stock under our various common share plans of $30.8 million and $337.4 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily from our at the market equity issuance program. We had minimal activity in 2011. The at the market equity program was terminated in connection with the Merger. 38 Table of Contents We paid distributions of $387.1 million, $280.7 million and $271.8 million to our common stockholders during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We paid dividends on our preferred stock of $27.0 million, $25.4 million and $25.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we received proceeds of $123.9 million from our noncontrolling interest partners, primarily for the purchase of real estate properties by our consolidated co investment venture, Mexico Fondo Logistico. In addition, we distributed $17.4 million to noncontrolling interests in 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures Debt We had investments in and advances to certain unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2011 of $2.4 billion. These unconsolidated ventures had total third party debt of $9.3 billion (in the aggregate, not our proportionate share) at December 31, 2011 that matures as follows (in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Discount/ Premium Total (1) Prologis California LLC $ $ $ 137.5 $ $ 52.5 $ 120.0 $ $ 310.0 Prologis North American Properties Fund I 108.7 108.7 Prologis North American Properties Fund XI 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund 52.0 80.0 108.7 444.0 559.5 1,244.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund II (2) 159.6 75.3 476.1 74.8 136.5 325.7 (4.7) 1,243.3 Prologis North American IndustrialFund III (3) 203.5 385.6 146.4 280.0 (1.4) 1,014.1 Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund 42.6 188.8 102.5 280.7 158.6 810.0 15.2 1,598.4 Prologis Mexico Industrial Fund 214.1 214.1 Prologis SGP Mexico (4) 62.4 3.7 3.9 4.1 144.8 218.9 Prologis European Properties Fund II (5) 13.6 485.4 223.5 462.3 229.8 209.3 1,623.9 Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund 9.3 9.4 388.7 226.9 2.3 2.4 12.8 651.8 Prologis Japan Fund 1 (6) 218.5 529.5 1.8 120.7 81.5 9.4 961.4 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 100.0 100.0 Total property funds $ 870.9 $ 1,758.1 $ 1,478.6 $ 1,159.3 $ 1,389.2 $ 2,602.5 $ 31.4 $ 9,290.0 (1) As of December 31, 2011, we had guaranteed $6.9 million of the third party debt of the co investment ventures. In our role as the manager, we work with the co investment ventures to refinance their maturing debt. There can be no assurance that the co investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of the ventures also have credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds. Generally, the co investment ventures issue long term debt and utilize the proceeds to repay borrowings under the credit facilities. (2) In February 2012, we bought out our partner and own 100% of this venture and will begin consolidating. In connection with this transaction, we repaid the loan this venture had to our partner of $334.6 million. We had a note receivable from this fund of $78.9 million that will now eliminate in consolidation. (3) We have a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $21.4 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. In February 2012, this loan payable to us and loans from Prologis North American Industrial Fund III payable to our partner were restructured into equity according to our ownership percentages. This resulted in additional equity to us of approximately $25 million. (4) Through the Merger we acquired a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $19.8 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. This venture has capital commitments from us and our partner that we expect to be used to repay this debt maturing in 2012. (5) PEPF II has a 150 million ($196.1 million) credit facility. The facility is denominated in euro and pound sterling. (6) The debt included in 2012 maturities is due October 2012. The co investment venture expects to re finance the debt in the first half of 2012. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Long Term Contractual Obligations We had long term contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than5 years Debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities $ 10,387 $ 1,220 $ 3,272 $ 2,130 $ 3,765 Interest on debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities 2,506 532 862 585 527 Unfunded commitments on the development portfolio (1) 306 306 Operating lease payments 331 26 44 33 228 Amounts due on Credit Facilities 935 291 644 Interest on Credit Facilities 70 16 47 7 Totals $ 14,535 $ 2,100 $ 4,516 $ 3,399 $ 4,520 (1) We had properties in our development portfolio (completed and under development) at December 31, 2011 with a total expected investment of $1.2 billion. The unfunded commitments presented include not only those costs that we are obligated to fund under construction contracts, but all costs necessary to place the property into service, including the estimated costs of tenant improvements, marketing and leasing costs which we will incur as the property is leased. Other Commitments On a continuing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition and or disposition of individual properties or portfolios of properties. Distribution and Dividend Requirements Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure we will meet the dividend requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to meet other needs such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.25 (adjusted by Merger exchange ratio) per common share for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash dividend of $0.28 per common share for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2011. A cash distribution of $0.28 for the first quarter of 2012 was declared on February 22, 2012. This distribution will be paid on March 30, 2012 to holders of common shares on March 12, 2012. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. At December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding. The annual dividend rates on preferred stock are 6.5% per Series L share, 6.75% per Series M share, 7.0% per Series O share, 6.85% per Series P share, 8.54% per Series Q share, 6.75% per Series R share and 6.75% per Series S share. The Series Q, R and S were preferred shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis prior to the Merger and distributions on those shares have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 through December 31, 2011. The dividends on the remaining preferred stock have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the Merger. The dividends on preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock has been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. Critical Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of an entitys financial condition and results of operations and requires judgment on the part of management. Generally, the judgment requires management to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are prepared using managements best judgment, after considering past and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, those presented below have been identified by us as critical accounting policies. 40 Table of Contents Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We assess the carrying values of our respective long lived assets, including goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we consider current market conditions, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Our intent with regard to the underlying assets might change as market conditions change, as well as other factors, especially in the current global economic environment. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques; including discounted cash flow models, applying a capitalization rate to estimated net operating income of a property, quoted market values and third party appraisals, where considered necessary. The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the real estate property. We use a two step approach to our goodwill impairment evaluation. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify whether there is any potential impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its corresponding book value, including goodwill, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed. The second step requires that we compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Assumptions and estimates used in the recoverability analyses for future cash flows, discount rates and capitalization rates are complex and subjective. Changes in economic and operating conditions or our intent with regard to our investment that occurs subsequent to our impairment analyses could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment of our real estate properties and or goodwill. Other than Temporary Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Investees When circumstances indicate there may have been a reduction in the value of an equity investment, we evaluate whether the loss in value is other than temporary. If we determine there is a loss in value that is other than temporary, we recognize an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. The use of projected future cash flows and other estimates of fair value, the determination of when a loss is other than temporary, and the calculation of the amount of the loss, is complex and subjective. Use of other estimates and assumptions may result in different conclusions. Changes in economic and operating conditions, as well as changes in our intent with regard to our investment, that occur subsequent to our review could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment charges of our equity investments. Revenue Recognition Gains on Disposition of Real Estate We recognize gains from the contributions and sales of real estate assets, generally at the time the title is transferred, consideration is received and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. In many of our transactions, an entity in which we have an ownership interest will acquire a real estate asset from us. We make judgments based on the specific terms of each transaction as to the amount of the total profit from the transaction that we recognize given our continuing ownership interest and our level of future involvement with the investee that acquires the assets. We also make judgments regarding recognition in earnings of certain fees and incentives based on when they are earned, fixed and determinable. Business Combinations We acquire individual properties, as well as portfolios of properties, or businesses. When we acquire a business or individual operating properties, with the intention to hold the investment for the long term, we allocate the purchase price to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The components typically include land, building, debt, intangible assets related to above and below market leases, value of costs to obtain tenants, deferred tax liabilities and other assumed assets and liabilities in the case of an acquisition of a business. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value and often times is based upon the expected future cash flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located. The fair value may also include an enterprise value premium that we estimate a third party would be willing to pay for a portfolio of properties. The initial allocation of the purchase price is based on managements preliminary assessment, which may differ when final information becomes available. Subsequent adjustments made to the initial purchase price allocation are made within the allocation period, which typically does not exceed one year. Consolidation We consolidate all entities that are wholly owned and those in which we own less than 100% but control, as well as any variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. We evaluate our ability to control an entity and whether the entity is a variable interest entity and we are the primary beneficiary through consideration of the substantive terms of the arrangement to identify which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impacts the entitys economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Investments in entities in which we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are presented under the equity method. Investments in entities that we do not control and over which we do not exercise significant influence are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, as appropriate. Our ability to correctly assess our influence and or control over an entity affects the presentation of these investments in our consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents Capitalization of Costs and Depreciation We capitalize costs incurred in developing, renovating, rehabilitating, and improving real estate assets as part of the investment basis. Costs incurred in making repairs and maintaining real estate assets are expensed as incurred. During the land development and construction periods, we capitalize interest costs, insurance, real estate taxes and certain general and administrative costs of the personnel performing development, renovations, and rehabilitation if such costs are incremental and identifiable to a specific activity to get the asset ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of real estate assets. We also capitalize costs incurred to successfully originate a lease that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition of that lease. Leasing costs that meet the requirements for capitalization are presented as a component of other assets. We estimate the depreciable portion of our real estate assets and related useful lives in order to record depreciation expense. Our ability to estimate the depreciable portions of our real estate assets and useful lives is critical to the determination of the appropriate amount of depreciation expense recorded and the carrying value of the underlying assets. Any change to the assets to be depreciated and the estimated depreciable lives of these assets would have an impact on the depreciation expense recognized. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income tax liability, the liability associated with open tax years that are under review and our compliance with REIT requirements. Our estimates are based on interpretation of tax laws. We estimate our actual current income tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for book and tax purposes resulting in the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. These estimates may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in assessments of the recognition of income tax benefits for certain non routine transactions, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, our inability to qualify as a REIT, the potential for built in gain recognition, changes in the assessment of properties to be contributed to taxable REIT subsidiaries and changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included within income tax expense. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Funds from Operations (FFO) FFO is a non GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) has published a definition of FFO, which was amended in late 2011, further modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business. FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance. NAREITs FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation, gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated properties. We agree that these NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons: historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP assumes, through depreciation charges, that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. NAREIT stated in its White Paper on FFO since real estate asset values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Consequently, NAREITs definition of FFO reflects the fact that real estate, as an asset class, generally appreciates over time and depreciation charges required by GAAP do not reflect the underlying economic realities. REITs were created as a legal form of organization in order to encourage public ownership of real estate as an asset class through investment in firms that were in the business of long term ownership and management of real estate. The exclusion, in NAREITs definition of FFO, of gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated operating real estate assets allows investors and analysts to readily identify the operating results of the long term assets that form the core of a REITs activity and assists in comparing those operating results between periods. We include the gains and losses from dispositions of land and development properties in FFO. As a result, if we recognize impairment charges related to these types of properties, we also include the impairment charges in the calculation of FFO as defined by NAREIT. We exclude from FFO as defined by NAREIT gains and losses from dispositions of properties, other than land and development properties, which we refer to as Non FFO properties, as well as any related impairment charges. We include or exclude our share of these items recognized by our unconsolidated investees on the same basis. 42 Table of Contents Our FFO Measures At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community. We believe stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. We use these FFO measures, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties. The long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating our FFO measures are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long term outlook. We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs. FFO, as defined by Prologis: To arrive at FFO, as defined by Prologis, we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude: (i) deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries; (ii) current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the extent the expense is offset with a deferred income tax benefit in GAAP earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; (iii) foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from debt transactions between us and our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; (iv) foreign currency exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement (based on current foreign currency exchange rates) of certain third party debt of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; and (v) mark to market adjustments associated with derivative financial instruments. We calculate FFO, as defined by Prologis for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our FFO, as defined by Prologis. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Core FFO In addition to FFO, as defined by Prologis, we also use Core FFO. To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as defined by Prologis, to exclude the following recurring and non recurring items that we recognized directly or our share recognized by our unconsolidated investees to the extent they are included in FFO, as defined by Prologis: (i) gains or losses from acquisition, contribution or sale of land or development properties; (ii) income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate; (iii) impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate (either directly or through our investments in unconsolidated investees) generally as a result of our change in intent to contribute or sell these properties; (iv) impairment charges of goodwill and other assets; (v) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; (vi) merger, acquisition and other integration expenses; and (vii) expenses related to natural disasters We believe it is appropriate to further adjust our FFO, as defined by Prologis for certain recurring items as they were driven by transactional activity and factors relating to the financial and real estate markets, rather than factors specific to the on going operating performance of our properties or investments. The impairment charges we recognized were primarily based on valuations of real estate, which had declined due to market conditions, that we no longer expected to hold for long term investment. We currently have and have had over the past several years a stated priority to strengthen our financial position. We expect to accomplish this by reducing our debt, our investment in certain low yielding assets, such as land that we decide not to develop and our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. As a result, we have sold to third parties or contributed to unconsolidated investees real estate properties that, depending on market conditions, might result in a gain or loss. The impairment charges related to goodwill and other assets that we have recognized were similarly caused by the decline in the real 43 Table of Contents estate markets. Also in connection with our stated priority to reduce debt and extend debt maturities, we have purchased portions of our debt securities. As a result, we recognized net gains or losses on the early extinguishment of certain debt due to the financial market conditions at that time. We have also adjusted for some non recurring items. The merger, acquisition and other integration expenses include costs we incurred in 2011 and that we expect to incur in 2012 associated with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition and the integration of our systems and processes. We have not adjusted for the acquisition costs that we have incurred as a result of routine acquisitions but only the costs associated with significant business combinations that we would expect to be infrequent in nature. Similarly, the expenses related to the natural disaster in Japan that we recognized in 2011 are a rare occurrence but we may incur similar expenses again in the future. We analyze our operating performance primarily by the rental income of our real estate and the revenue driven by our private capital business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities. As a result, although these items have had a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal of the effects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. We use Core FFO, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; (v) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (vi) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties we own. As noted above, we believe the long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREITs nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, they are only part of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are: The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures represent the taxes that are payable. Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Further, the amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of industrial properties are not reflected in FFO. Gains or losses from property acquisitions and dispositions or impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent changes in the value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, our FFO measures do not capture realized changes in the value of acquired or disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions. The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures result from the creation of a deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our defined FFO measures do not currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures are generally recognized based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign currency denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements. The impairment charges of goodwill and other assets that we exclude from Core FFO, have been or may be realized as a loss in the future upon the ultimate disposition of the related investments or other assets through the form of lower cash proceeds. The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or cost to us as we may be settling our debt at less or more than our future obligation. The Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses and the natural disaster expenses that we exclude from Core FFO are costs that we have incurred. We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP. 44 Table of Contents FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares was $411.7 million, a negative $974.2 million and $185.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Core FFO attributable to common shares as defined by us was $593.9 million, $237.4 million and $416.7 million for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in Core FFO is primarily due to the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, both of which substantially increased our investments in real estate properties directly and through our unconsolidated investments as discussed earlier. The reconciliations of Core FFO and FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares to net earnings attributable to common shares computed under GAAP are as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 FFO: Reconciliation of net loss to FFO measures: Net loss attributable to common shares $ (188,110) $ (1,295,920) $ (2,650) Add (deduct) NAREIT defined adjustments: Real estate related depreciation and amortization 566,328 295,182 248,267 Impairment of non FFO operating properties 5,300 126,987 46,624 Net gains on dispositions of non FFO operating properties (39,812) (196,080) (168,177) Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests (19,889) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees 147,608 141,721 132,971 Subtotal NAREIT defined FFO 471,425 (928,110) 257,035 Add (deduct) our defined adjustments: Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net (39,034) 11,487 (58,128) Deferred income tax expense (benefit) (19,803) (52,223) (19,641) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees (900) (5,351) 6,243 FFO, as defined by Prologis 411,688 (974,197) 185,509 Impairment charges 145,028 1,110,072 448,612 Natural disaster expenses 5,210 Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses 140,495 Our share of losses (gains) on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net (115,577) (110,786) (65,587) Losses (gains) on early extinguishment of debt (258) 201,486 (172,258) Income tax expense on dispositions 7,331 10,783 20,466 Core FFO $ 593,917 $ 237,358 $ 416,742 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. We have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. We have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. The sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer term debt issuances. At December 31, 2011, we have &yen;61.1 billion ($788.4 million) in TMK bond agreements and a &yen;12.5 billion ($161.3 million) term loan with variable interest rates. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on &yen;21.8 billion ($281.2 million as of December 31, 2011) of the TMK bonds and the entire term loan for the term of the agreements. At December 31, 2011, we have also entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on 771.6 million ($1.0 billion) of secured debt, of which 743.6 million ($972.2 million) relates to PEPR, with variable interest rates. In 2011, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $870.9 million on our variable rate Credit Facilities. Based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, which assumed a 10% adverse change in interest rates, the estimated market risk exposure for the variable rate lines of credit was approximately $1.8 million of cash flow in 2011. 45 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars, principally euro, British pound sterling and yen. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. We also may use foreign currency put option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated investees. At December 31, 2011, we had no put option contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. At December 31, 2011, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (6) In 2011, the definition of NAREIT defined FFO was amended, according to which impairment write downs of depreciable real estate should be excluded in the computation of FFO. As a result, NAREIT defined adjustments were adjusted for the impairment charge on certain real estate properties for all periods presented. Amounts of impairment excluded from the calculation of FFO were $5.3 million, $127.0 million and $46.6 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no impairment amounts excluded from the calculation of FFO in 2008. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company We are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated ventures, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises. Of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2011: approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2% occupied; approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased; 24 Table of Contents approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and non industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio. Prologis, Inc. is a self administered and self managed real estate investment trust, and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. We operate the REIT and the Operating Partnership as one enterprise, and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to the REIT and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, collectively. On June 3, 2011, we completed the Merger in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of AMB common stock for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis. Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Therefore, pre Merger activity included in the Management Discussion and Analysis is the activity of ProLogis and does not include AMB results until June 3, 2011. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating PEPR. We have recorded the purchase price allocations for both the Merger of $5.9 billion and PEPR Acquisition of $1.6 billion in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not provide as meaningful of information as if those transactions were reflected in both periods. As a result of this Merger, we have identified more than $115 million on an annualized basis of merger cost synergies, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Business Strategy Our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Private Capital. We generate revenues, earnings, net operating income, and funds from operations, both as defined below, and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as follows: Real Estate Operations Segment Rental Operations This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or FFO as defined below). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company. Capital Deployment Activities Our development and re development activities support our rental operations and are, therefore, included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co investment ventures for long term hold, for contribution into one of our co investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan, we are developing directly while in emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co investment ventures. Private Capital Segment We co invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co investment ventures. We have a direct and long standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital in both close ended and open ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10 50% in the ventures. We believe our co investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co investment partners interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third party capital in our existing ventures. In 2009, we recognized income in the CDFS business segment related to gains from the Japan property funds that were deferred upon original contributions and triggered with the sale of our investments. We no longer have a CDFS business segment. 25 Table of Contents Summary of 2011 During the year ended December 31, 2011, we completed the following activities in support of our strategic priorities: Completed the Merger on June 3, 2011 and have completed the majority of the integration activities. Completed the PEPR Acquisition in May 2011. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we increased our debt to $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we have reduced our debt to $11.4 billion due primarily to repayments that were funded with proceeds from dispositions of properties. As of June 30, 2011 our total owned and managed portfolio, including consolidated and unconsolidated properties, was 90.7% occupied and 91.3% leased. As a result of significant leasing activity in the second half of 2011 we increased to 92.2% occupied and 92.5% leased, as of December 31, 2011. Issued 34.5 million shares of common stock in a public offering at a price of $33.50 per share, generating approximately $1.1 billion in net proceeds (2011 Equity Offering) in late June 2011. Entered into a new global senior credit agreement, terminated our existing global line of credit and amended a yen revolving credit agreement. Completed an exchange offer in June 2011 for ProLogis senior notes and exchangeable senior notes. Operational Outlook Despite the ongoing slowdown in the global economic recovery, fourth quarter real estate fundamentals in the U.S. industrial markets continued to improve consistent with the improvement we saw in the third quarter. Though down from its rebound third quarter level, net absorption of U.S. industrial space measured 28 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Net absorption has been positive for the last six consecutive quarters, reducing the availability rate by 90 basis points during that time. At 13.6%, availability is at its lowest level since the second quarter of 2009. Net effective rent has made modest improvements, and as a result, some speculative development is beginning in selected locations such as Miami, Washington D.C., Seattle, Southern California, and Houston. Though economic growth remains relatively moderate, inventories continue to rise, and utilization rates have been on an overall upward trajectory since late 2010. In the U.S., net absorption totaled more than 117 million square feet in 2011, representing a remarkable improvement over the past few years, and we expect net absorption of 150 175 million square feet in 2012. Within Europe and Japan, we believe significant supply chain reconfiguration, the ongoing globalization of Central and Eastern Europe, obsolescence and strong tenant preference to rent rather than own will fuel additional demand for industrial space. Moreover, the undersupply of Class A distribution space in Japan has and will continue to create demand for more modern, earthquake resistant product, especially as Japan rebuilds and regroups from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, which temporarily interrupted its supply chain. Demand in emerging markets where we have investments primarily through our co investment ventures, such as Brazil, China, and Mexico, remains strong. In our total owned and managed operating portfolio, which includes properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated co investment ventures that are accounted for under the equity method and including properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 138.8 million square feet of space in 2011. Excluding the properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 119.4 million square feet of space during the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective rental rates on leases signed during the fourth quarter of 2011 in our same store portfolio (as defined below) decreased by 4.5% when compared with the rental rates on the previous leases on that same space. The total owned and managed portfolio was 92.2% occupied at December 31, 2011, up from 89.0% at December 31, 2010. Our existing customers renewed their leases 74.7% of the time in 2011 as compared with 79.5% in 2010. We believe that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and we are currently evaluating multiple opportunities in our global and regional markets around the globe. Our development business consists of speculative development, build to suit development, value added coversions and redevelopment. We expect to develop directly and within the co investment structures depending on location, market conditions, submarkets or building sites, and availability of capital. We believe that developing, redeveloping and or expanding of well located, high quality industrial properties provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from purchasing existing properties. However, development projects may require significant management attention and capital investment to maximize returns. During 2011, in response to this emerging demand, we (including ProLogis, AMB pre Merger, and unconsolidated entities) commenced development of 42 properties totaling 10.8 million square feet with a total expected investment of $1.0 billion. Of this amount, $863.5 million is our share and $153.2 million is the share of our co investment venture partners. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary The following table illustrates the net operating income for each of our segments, along with the reconciling items to Loss from Continuing Operations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net operating income real estate operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 Net operating income private capital segment 82,657 81,867 101,547 Net operating income CDFS business segment 180,237 General and administrative expenses (195,161) (165,981) (192,231) Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses (140,495) Impairment of real estate properties (21,237) (736,612) (331,592) Depreciation and amortization (585,323) (311,268) (266,364) Earnings from unconsolidated investees, net 59,935 23,678 28,059 Interest expense (468,738) (461,166) (372,768) Impairment of goodwill and other assets (126,432) (412,745) (163,644) Interest and other income (expense), net 12,008 15,847 (39,349) Gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net 111,684 28,488 35,262 Foreign currency exchange and derivative gains (losses), net 41,172 (11,081) 35,626 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 258 (201,486) 172,258 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,776) 30,499 (5,975) Loss from continuing operations $ (244,459) $ (1,589,462) $ (355,089) See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our segments and a reconciliation of net operating income to Loss Before Income Taxes. Real Estate Operations Segment The net operating income of the Real Estate Operations segment consisted of rental income and rental expenses from industrial properties that we own and consolidate and is impacted by our capital deployment activities. The size and percentage of occupancy of our consolidated operating portfolio fluctuates due to the timing of acquisitions, development activity and contributions. Such fluctuations affect the net operating income we recognize in this segment in a particular period. Also included in this segment is revenue from land we own and lease to customers under ground leases and development management and other income, offset by acquisition costs and land holding costs. As discussed earlier, results for 2011 included approximately seven months of rental income and expenses from the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. The results of properties that were sold to third parties are presented as Discontinued Operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for all periods and therefore do not impact the segment results. The net operating income from the Real Estate Operations segment for the years ended December 31, was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Rental and other income $ 1,395,672 $ 762,061 $ 701,971 Rental and other expenses 408,683 231,563 238,126 Total net operating income Real Estate Operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 The increases in rental income and rental expenses in 2011 from 2010 are due principally to the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition, increased occupancy in our consolidated operating portfolio (from 85.9% at December 31, 2010 to 91.4% at December 31, 2011) and the completion and stabilization of new development properties. The results for 2011 include approximately seven months of rental income and rental expenses from properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition of $565.5 million and $147.6 million, respectively. In our consolidated portfolio, we leased 63.4 million square feet in 2011 compared to 57.3 million square feet in 2010. The increase in net operating income in 2010 over 2009 is due primarily to increased occupancy in the development portfolio. We calculate the change in effective rental rates on the previous leases on that same space for leases signed during a quarter, based on our same store portfolio (as defined below). During 2011 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 8.9% to a decrease of 4.5%. During 2010 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 15.7% to a decrease of 8.5%. The decrease was due to: (i) leases turning that were put in place when market rents were at or near peak; and (ii) decreased market rents. Under the terms of our lease agreements, we are able to recover the majority of our rental expenses from customers. Rental expense recoveries, included in both rental income and rental expenses, were $283.1 million, $161.0 million and $150.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Our consolidated operating portfolio as of December 31 was as follows (square feet in thousands): Number ofProperties Square Feet Leased % 2011 (1) 1,797 291,051 91.7% 2010 985 168,547 87.6% 2009 1,188 191,623 82.7% (1) The amount at December 31, 2011 included 848 properties with 126.3 million square feet that were acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Private Capital Segment The net operating income of the Private Capital segment consisted of fees and incentives earned for services performed for our unconsolidated investees and certain third parties, reduced by our direct costs of managing these entities and the properties they own. The direct costs associated with our Private Capital segment totaled $55.0 million, $40.7 million and $43.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in the line item Private Capital Expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8. These expenses include the direct expenses associated with the asset management of the unconsolidated co investment ventures provided by individuals who are assigned to our Private Capital segment. In addition, in order to achieve efficiencies and economies of scale, all of our property management functions are provided by a team of professionals who are assigned to our Real Estate Operations segment. These individuals perform the property level management of the properties in our owned and managed portfolio including properties we consolidate and the properties we manage that are owned by the unconsolidated investees. We allocate the costs of our property management function to the properties we consolidate (reported in Rental Expenses) and the properties owned by the unconsolidated investees (included in Private Capital Expenses), by using the square feet owned by the respective portfolios. The increase in Private Capital Expenses in 2011 is due to the increased private capital platform and infrastructure that was part of the Merger, offset partially with a decline in the portion of our property management expenses that are allocated to this segment due to the consolidation of PEPR. The net operating income from the Private Capital segment for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Unconsolidated ventures: Americas (1) $ 42,644 $ 40,354 $ 44,284 Europe (2) 30,708 41,200 34,508 Asia (3) 9,305 313 22,755 Total net operating income Private Capital segment $ 82,657 $ 81,867 $ 101,547 (1) Represents the fees earned by us from 10, 10 and 12 unconsolidated co investment ventures for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reduced by private capital expenses. In connection with the Merger, we added three co investment ventures in the Americas (with investments in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil). In December 2010, we sold our interests in three U.S. co investment ventures. (2) Represents the fees earned by us from several different unconsolidated co investment ventures, reduced by private capital expenses. In 2011, we had one co investment venture during the entire year, we included PEPR up to the date we began consolidating at the end of May 2011, and added two co investment ventures acquired through the Merger. In 2010 and 2009, we had two co investment ventures for the entire year. (3) Represents the fees earned by us from our investments in three unconsolidated co investment ventures in 2011 and only one co investment venture in South Korea during 2010, reduced by private capital expenses. We sold our investment in the Korea co investment venture during the third quarter 2011. With the Merger, we acquired an investment in an unconsolidated co investment venture in each of Japan and China. In addition to the Korea co investment venture in 2009, we had two co investment ventures in Japan that were sold in February of 2009. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information on our unconsolidated investees. CDFS Business Segment Net operating income of the CDFS business segment for 2009 was $180.2 million. As previously discussed, our business strategy no longer includes the CDFS business segment. The amount in 2009 is the recognition of gains previously deferred from the contribution of properties and recognized due to the sale of our investments in the Japan co investment venture in February 2009. 28 Table of Contents Other Components of Income General and Administrative (G&A) Expense and Reduction in Workforce (RIF) G&A expenses for the years ended December 31 consisted of the following (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Gross G&A expense (1) $ 332,632 $ 266,932 $ 304,153 Reported as rental expenses (24,741) (19,709) (19,446) Reported as private capital expenses (54,962) (40,659) (43,416) Capitalized amounts (57,768) (40,583) (49,060) Net G&A $ 195,161 $ 165,981 $ 192,231 (1) 2009 included expenses related to a RIF program. At the end of 2008, in response to the difficult economic climate, we initiated G &A expense reductions. These initiatives included a RIF plan that had a total cost of $11.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in G&A expenses and the various components from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to the Merger, PEPR Acquisition and the larger infrastructure associated with our larger company. Overall G&A expense decreased from 2009 to 2010 due to lower gross G&A expense, as a result of the RIF program in 2009 and various cost savings measures, offset by lower capitalized G&A. Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses In connection with the Merger and other related activities, we have incurred significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; system conversion costs; and other integration costs. These costs are expensed as incurred. The costs that were obligations of AMB and expensed pre Merger are not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. At the time of the Merger, we terminated our existing credit facilities and wrote off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which are included as a merger expense. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR and the reduction in workforce charges associated with dispositions made in 2011. We expect to continue to recognize costs, primarily compensation and severance costs for transitional employees and system conversion and implementation costs through the end of 2012 as incurred. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during 2011 (in thousands): 2011 Termination, severance and transitional employee costs $ 58,445 Professional fees 46,467 Office closure, travel and other costs 24,714 Write off of deferred loan costs 10,869 Total $ 140,495 The majority of the costs incurred in 2011 were incurred during the second quarter of 2011 when the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition were completed. Impairment of Real Estate Properties During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized impairment charges of real estate properties in continuing operations of $21.2 million, $736.6 million and $331.6 million, respectively, due to our change of intent to no longer hold these assets for long term investment. In 2010, the charges primarily included land as a result of our change in strategy. Changes in economic and operating conditions and our ultimate investment intent with regard to our investments in real estate that occur in the future may result in additional impairment charges or gains at the time of sale. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more detail on the process we took to value these assets and the related impairments taken. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense was $585.3 million, $311.3 million and $266.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization expenses associated with the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (including intangible assets), completed and leased development properties and increased leasing activity. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to the completion, retention and leasing of our developed properties. 29 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense from continued operations, included the following components (in thousands) for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 Gross interest expense $ 500,685 $ 435,289 $ 382,362 Amortization of discount, net 228 47,136 67,542 Amortization of deferred loan costs 20,476 32,402 17,069 Interest expense before capitalization 521,389 514,827 466,973 Capitalized amounts (52,651) (53,661) (94,205) Net interest expense $ 468,738 $ 461,166 $ 372,768 Gross interest expense increased in 2011 from 2010 due primarily to higher debt levels as a result of the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, offset partially by decreased interest rates. The decrease in capitalized amounts in 2011 from 2010 was due to lower interest rates during 2011. During the first part of 2011, we had lower debt balances as a result of repayment and repurchases of debt made in 2010 with proceeds from asset sales and the November 2010 equity offering. We reduced our outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 to $6.5 billion. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we added approximately $5.9 billion of debt at fair value at the beginning of June 2011 and approximately seven months of related interest expense in 2011. At December 31, 2011, our debt balance was $11.4 billion, a decrease from $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011, primarily due to repayments funded by proceeds received from the dispositions of properties. All of these activities have resulted in a lower weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of premiums, discounts and deferred loan costs) of 5.58% in 2011, as compared with 6.48% in 2010. The increase in interest expense in 2010 over 2009 is due to increased borrowing rates and lower capitalization due to less development activity in 2010. In addition, in 2010 we wrote off $7.7 million in deferred loan costs based on the proportionate amount that we reduced our borrowing capacity on our global line of credit. The lower amortization of discount is due to the buyback of exchangeable debt that includes a non cash discount. Our weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred loan costs) was 5.34% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our future interest expense, both gross and the portion capitalized, will vary depending on, among other things, the level of our development activities, which we expect will increase subsequent to the Merger. See Notes 3 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion of our debt and borrowing costs. Earnings from Unconsolidated Investees, Net We recognized net earnings of $59.9 million, $23.7 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These earnings relate to our investment in unconsolidated investees that are accounted for on the equity method. The primary reason for the increase in 2011 over 2010 is due to the investments we acquired through the Merger, partially offset by the consolidation of PEPR. The earnings we recognize are impacted by: (i) variances in revenues and expenses of the entity; (ii) the size and occupancy rate of the portfolio of properties owned by the entity; (iii) our ownership interest in the entity; and (iv) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars, if applicable. We manage the majority of the properties in which we have an ownership interest as part of our total owned and managed portfolio. See discussion of our portfolio results in the section, Portfolio Information. See also Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets Based on our review of goodwill in 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $368.5 million related to goodwill allocated to the Real Estate Operations segment in the Americas and Europe reporting units. The review of goodwill was triggered by the strategic decision we made in the fourth quarter of 2010 to significantly downsize our development platform and, as a result, to sell to third parties certain other assets, some of which were acquired in the acquisitions that originally created the goodwill. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $126.4 million, $44.3 million and $163.6 million, respectively, on certain of our investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees, notes receivable and other assets, as we did not believe these amounts to be recoverable based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with these assets, including estimated sales proceeds or we believed the decline in fair value to be other than temporary. See Notes 2 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our process with regard to analyzing the recoverability of goodwill and other assets. Also see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our unconsolidated investees. 30 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net We recognized interest and other income not allocated to a segment of $12.0 million and $15.8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and other expense of $39.3 million in 2009. The primary components in 2009 were adjustments of $20.3 million to accruals we had related to rent indemnifications we had made to certain co investment ventures due to changes in leasing and other assumptions and settlement costs of $13.0 million related to an obligation we assumed in the 2005 acquisition of Catellus. Gains on Acquisitions and Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net During 2011, we recognized net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $111.7 million. This included gains recognized in the second quarter related to the PEPR Acquisition ($85.9 million) and the acquisition of our partners interest in a joint venture in Japan ($13.5 million) and the contribution or sale of properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The gains represent the adjustment to fair value of our equity investments at the time we gained control and consolidated the entities. The contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $590.8 million and net gains of $12.3 million. During 2010, we recognized net gains on dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $28.5 million, which related to the contribution of land and operating properties to unconsolidated investees ($58.3 million gain), additional proceeds from contributions we made to PEPF II in 2009 based on valuations received as of December 31, 2010 and our contribution agreement with the fund ($27.4 million gain) and the sale of land parcels to third parties ($7.4 million gain), offset by a loss of $64.6 million related to the sale of certain unconsolidated investees. The 2010 contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $469.7 million related to the contribution of development properties aggregating 2.1 million square feet and land to unconsolidated investees, and the sale of 90% of two development properties in Japan with 1.3 million square feet. We continue to own 10% of the Japan properties, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and we continue to manage the properties. During 2009, we recognized net gains of $35.3 million related to the contribution of properties ($13.0 million), the recognition of previously deferred gains from PEPR and ProLogis Korea Fund on properties they sold to third parties ($9.9 million), the sale of land parcels ($6.4 million), and a gain on settlement of an obligation to our fund partner in connection with the restructure of one of our Americas funds ($6.0 million). The contribution activity resulted in total cash proceeds of $643.7 million and included 43 properties aggregating 9.2 million square feet to PEPF II. If we realize a gain on contribution or sale of a property to an unconsolidated investee, we recognize the portion attributable to the third party ownership in the entity. If we realize a loss on contribution, we recognize the full amount as soon as it is known. Due to our continuing involvement through our ownership in the co investment venture, these dispositions are not included in discontinued operations. Foreign Currency Exchange and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net We and certain of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries may have intercompany or third party debt that is not denominated in the entitys functional currency. When the debt is remeasured against the functional currency of the entity, a gain or loss may result. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity when appropriate. Certain of our intercompany debt is remeasured with the resulting adjustment recognized as a cumulative translation adjustment in Foreign Currency Translation Gains (Losses), Net in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). This treatment is applicable to intercompany debt that is deemed to be long term in nature. If the intercompany debt is deemed short term in nature, when the debt is remeasured, we recognize a gain or loss in earnings. We recognized net foreign currency exchange losses of $5.9 million and losses of $11.5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and gains of $58.2 million in 2009, related to the remeasurement of debt. Predominantly the gains or losses recognized in earnings relate to the remeasurement of intercompany loans between the U.S. parent and certain consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and Europe and result from fluctuations in the exchange rates of U.S. dollars to the euro, Japanese yen, British pound sterling and Singapore dollar. In addition, we recognized net foreign currency exchange gains of $2.1 million and $0.4 million and losses of $22.6 million from the settlement of transactions with third parties during December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger and the exchange offer discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, our convertible senior notes became exchangeable senior notes issued by the Operating Partnership that are exchangeable into common stock of the REIT. As a result, the accounting for the exchangeable senior notes has changed and, we are now required to separate the fair value of the derivative instrument (exchange feature) from the debt instrument and account for it separately as a derivative. We adjust the derivative instrument at each reporting period to fair value with the resulting adjustment being recorded in earnings. In 2011, we recognized an unrealized gain of $45.0 million. Gains (Losses) on Early Extinguishment of Debt, Net During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we purchased portions of several series of senior notes, senior exchangeable notes and Eurobonds outstanding and extinguished some secured mortgage debt prior to maturity, which resulted in the recognition of gains of $0.3 million in 2011, losses of $201.5 million in 2010, and gains of $172.3 million in 2009. The gains or losses represent the difference between the recorded debt (net of premiums and discounts and including related debt issuance costs) and the consideration we paid to retire the debt, including fees. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information regarding our debt repurchases. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit (Expense) During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our current income tax expense was $21.6 million, $21.7 million and $29.3 million, respectively. We recognize current income tax expense for income taxes incurred by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as certain state taxes. We also include in current income tax expense the interest associated with our liability for uncertain tax positions. Our current income tax expense fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income and changes in tax and interest rates. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $19.8 million, $52.2 million and $23.3 million, respectively. Deferred income tax expense is generally a function of the periods temporary differences and the utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in certain of our taxable subsidiaries operating in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions. The deferred tax benefit recorded during 2010 is primarily due to impairment charges recorded to the book basis of real estate properties and investments in unconsolidated investees, net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards recorded for certain jurisdictions, and the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to built in gains. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a deferred income tax benefit of approximately $27.5 million resulting from the conversion of two of our European management companies to taxable entities. This conversion was approved by the applicable tax authorities in June 2010 and created an asset for tax purposes that will be utilized against future taxable income as it is amortized. The deferred tax benefit was partially offset by an increase to the valuation allowance in certain jurisdictions because we could not sustain a conclusion that it was more likely than not that we could realize the deferred tax assets and NOL carryforwards. Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations represent a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations of the entity as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations of the component of the entity that has been classified as discontinued operations are reported separately in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land subject to ground leases and 94, 205 and 140 properties, respectively, to third parties that met the requirements to be classified as discontinued operations. Therefore, the results of operations for these disposed properties are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented, along with the gains recognized during the period. See Notes 4 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Foreign Currency Translation (Losses), Net For our consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, we translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars at the time we consolidate those subsidiaries financial statements. Generally, assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments, due to the fluctuations in exchange rates from the beginning of the period to the end of the period, are included in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). During 2011, we recorded unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $171.0 million that related to foreign currency translations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. The euro and pound sterling remained relatively flat from December 31, 2010 to December, 31 2011, but both weakened to the U.S. dollar from the Merger and PEPR Acquisition date to December 31, 2011. These losses were offset slightly by the strengthening of the yen to the U.S. dollar during 2011. During 2010, we recognized unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $42.3 million related to foreign currency translations of our international business units into U.S. dollars upon consolidation, mainly as a result of the yen strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and pound sterling, from the beginning of the year to December 31, 2010. During 2009, we recognized unrealized net gains in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $59.9 million. This includes $209.2 million in gains, mainly as a result of the strengthening of the British pound sterling to the U.S. dollar offset partially by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and yen. These gains were offset by a decrease in other comprehensive income of $149.3 million, as a result of the sale of our China operations and our investments in the Japan property funds in February 2009, and represents the gains previously included as currency translation adjustments. 32 Table of Contents Portfolio Information Our total owned and managed portfolio of properties includes operating industrial properties and does not include properties under development, properties held for sale or non industrial properties and was as follows as of December 31 (square feet in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Consolidated 1,797 291,051 985 168,547 1,215 192,637 Unconsolidated 1,403 267,752 1,179 255,367 1,289 274,617 Totals 3,200 558,803 2,164 423,914 2,504 467,254 Same Store Analysis We evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and manage using a same store analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, thereby eliminating the effects of changes in the composition of the portfolio on performance measures. We include properties owned by us, and properties owned by the unconsolidated co investment ventures (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us (referred to as unconsolidated investees), in our same store analysis. We have defined the same store portfolio, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, as those properties that were in operation at January 1, 2010 and also December 31, 2011, including completed development properties. We have removed all properties that were disposed of to a third party or were classified as held for sale from the population for both periods. We believe the factors that impact rental income, rental expenses and net operating income in the same store portfolio are generally the same as for the total portfolio. In order to derive an appropriate measure of period to period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the current exchange rate to translate from local currency into U.S. dollars, for both periods. The same store portfolio included 538.4 million of aggregated square feet. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental income, rental expenses and net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses) for the full year, as included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8, to the respective amounts in our same store portfolio analysis. Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full Year 2011 Rental income $ 199,129 $ 285,339 $ 449,787 $ 442,581 $ 1,376,836 Rental expenses 61,875 79,261 125,216 118,300 384,652 Net operating income $ 137,254 $ 206,078 $ 324,571 $ 324,281 $ 992,184 2010 Rental income $ 181,526 $ 182,116 $ 188,347 $ 192,551 $ 744,540 Rental expenses 54,503 52,321 55,254 53,130 215,208 Net operating income $ 127,023 $ 129,795 $ 133,093 $ 139,421 $ 529,332 33 Table of Contents For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 2010 PercentageChange Rental Income (1)(2) Consolidated: Rental income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 442,581 $ 192,551 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (28,913) (9,157) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (235) 918 Unconsolidated investees: Rental income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 377,646 330,928 Rental income of AMB properties pre Merger 269,106 Same store portfolio rental income (2)(3) $ 791,079 $ 784,346 0.9% Rental Expenses (1)(4) Consolidated: Rental expenses per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 118,300 $ 53,130 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental expenses of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (16,663) (6,328) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other 7,410 5,496 Unconsolidated investees: Rental expenses of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 100,814 79,677 Rental expense of AMB properties pre Merger 73,734 Adjusted same store portfolio rental expenses (3)(4) $ 209,861 $ 205,709 2.0% Net Operating Income (1) Consolidated: Net operating income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 324,281 $ 139,421 Adjustments to derive same store results: Net operating income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (12,250) (2,829) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (7,645) (4,578) Unconsolidated investees: Net operating income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 276,832 251,251 Net operating income of AMB properties pre Merger 195,372 Adjusted same store portfolio net operating income (3) $ 581,218 $ 578,637 0.4% (1) As discussed above, our same store portfolio includes industrial properties from our consolidated portfolio and owned by the unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us. In addition, we have included the properties owned and managed by AMB as of January 1, 2010 that we still own at December 31, 2011 in the same store portfolio. During the periods presented, certain properties owned by us were contributed to an unconsolidated investee and are included in the same store portfolio on an aggregate basis. Neither our consolidated results nor that of the unconsolidated investees, when viewed individually, would be comparable on a same store basis due to the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to period (for example, the results of a contributed property would be included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the results of the unconsolidated investee subsequent to the contribution date). (2) We exclude the net termination and renegotiation fees from our same store rental income to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each propertys rental income without regard to items that are not indicative of the propertys recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, offset by the write off of the asset recognized due to the adjustment to straight line rents over the lease term. The adjustments to remove these items are included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the tables above. 34 Table of Contents (3) These amounts include rental income, rental expenses and net operating income of both our consolidated industrial properties and those owned by our unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) and managed by us. (4) Rental expenses in the same store portfolio include the direct operating expenses of the property such as property taxes, insurance, utilities, etc. In addition, we include an allocation of the property management expenses for our direct owned properties based on the property management fee that is provided for in the individual management agreements under which our wholly owned management companies provide property management services to each property (generally, the fee is based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, the management fee income earned by the management companies and the management fee expense recognized by the properties are eliminated and the actual costs of providing property management services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expenses. These expenses fluctuate based on the level of properties included in the same store portfolio and any adjustment is included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the above table. Environmental Matters A majority of the properties acquired by us were subjected to environmental reviews either by us or the previous owners. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We record a liability for the estimated costs of environmental remediation to be incurred in connection with certain operating properties we acquire, as well as certain land parcels we acquire in connection with the planned development of the land. The liability is established to cover the environmental remediation costs, including cleanup costs, consulting fees for studies and investigations, monitoring costs and legal costs relating to cleanup, litigation defense, and the pursuit of responsible third parties. We purchase various environmental insurance policies to mitigate our exposure to environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, dispositions of properties and from available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition, operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements. Near Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses In addition to dividends to the common and preferred stockholders of the REIT and distributions to the limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, we expect our primary cash needs will consist of the following: completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (a); investments in current or future unconsolidated investees, primarily for the development and or acquisition of properties depending on market and other conditions (b); development of new properties for long term investment; repayment of debt, including payments on our credit facilities and repurchases of senior notes and or exchangeable senior notes; scheduled consolidated debt principal payments in 2012 of $1.2 billion; capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties; depending on market and other conditions, acquisition of operating properties and or portfolios of operating properties in global or regional markets for direct, long term investment (this might include acquisitions from our co investment ventures); and merger integration and transition expenses. (a) As of December 31, 2011, we had 30 properties in our development portfolio that were 49.8% leased with a current investment of $860.5 million and a total expected investment of $1.2 billion when completed and leased, leaving $306.4 million remaining to be spent. (b) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for discussion of the capital commitments of certain co investment ventures. We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources, all subject to market conditions: available unrestricted cash balances ($176.1 million at December 31, 2011); property operations; 35 Table of Contents fees and incentives earned for services performed on behalf of the co investment ventures and distributions received from the co investment ventures; proceeds from the disposition of properties, land parcels or other investments to third parties; proceeds from the contributions or sales of properties to co investment ventures; borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements discussed below ($1.2 billion available as of December 31, 2011), other facilities or borrowing arrangements; proceeds from the issuance of equity securities; and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities, including secured mortgage debt. We may repurchase our outstanding debt securities through cash purchases, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. Such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Debt In 2012 we have scheduled debt maturities of $1.2 billion, including $361 million of our consolidated but not wholly owned entities. We expect to pay these maturities with proceeds from the disposition of properties and available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. These covenants include customary financial covenants for total debt ratios, encumbered debt ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Credit Facilities On June 3, 2011, we entered into a global senior credit facility (Global Facility), pursuant to which the Operating Partnership and certain subsidiaries and affiliates may obtain loans and or procure the issuance of letters of credit in various currencies on a revolving basis in an aggregate amount. The loans cannot exceed $1.71 billion (subject to currency fluctuations) and may be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars and British pounds. We may increase availability under the Global Facility to $2.75 billion, subject to currency fluctuations and obtaining additional lender commitments. The Global Facility is scheduled to mature on June 3, 2015, but the Operating Partnership may, at its option and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date of the Global Facility to June 3, 2016. Pricing under the Global Facility, including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies based upon the public debt ratings of the Operating Partnership. The Global Facility contains customary representations, covenants and defaults (including a cross acceleration to other recourse indebtedness of more than $50 million). In addition, on June 3, 2011, we entered into a Yen revolver (the Revolver), which has a total borrowing capacity of &yen;36.5 billion (approximately $471.3 million at December 31, 2011). The Revolver matures on March 1, 2014, but we may, at our option and subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date to February 27, 2015. We may increase availability under the Revolver to an amount not exceeding &yen;56.5 billion (approximately $729.6 million at December 31, 2011), subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. Pricing under the Revolver is consistent with the Global Facility pricing. The Revolver contains certain customary representations, covenants and defaults that are substantially the same as the corresponding provisions of the Global Facility. We refer to the Global Facility and Revolver collectively as Credit Facilities. Information related to our Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2011 is as follows (dollars in millions): Aggregate lender commitments $ 2,184.6 Less: Borrowings outstanding (934.9) Outstanding letters of credit (85.0) Current availability $ 1,164.7 On February 2, 2012, we entered into a senior term loan agreement where we may obtain loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed 487.5 million (approximately $634 million). The loans can be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and British pounds sterling. We may increase the borrowings to approximately 987.5 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. The loan agreement is scheduled to mature on February 2, 2014, but we may extend the maturity date three times, in each case up to one year, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee. We used the proceeds from this senior term loan to pay off the two outstanding term loans assumed in connection with the Merger and the remainder to pay down borrowings on the Credit Facilities. 36 Table of Contents Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co Investment Ventures Certain co investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. We may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. Our venture partners fulfill their equity commitment with cash. We are committed to offer to contribute certain properties that we develop and stabilize in select markets in Europe and Mexico to certain co investment ventures. These ventures are committed to acquire such properties, subject to certain exceptions, including that the properties meet certain specified leasing and other criteria, and that the ventures have available capital. Generally the venture obtains financing for the properties and therefore the equity commitment is less than the acquisition price of the real estate. We are not obligated to contribute properties at a loss. Depending on market conditions, the investment objectives of the ventures, our liquidity needs and other factors, we may make contributions of properties to these ventures through the remaining commitment period. The following table is a summary of remaining equity commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in millions): Equity commitments Expiration date for remainingcommitments Prologis SGP Mexico (1) Prologis $ 24.6 (1 ) Venture Partner $ 98.1 Prologis Europe Logistics Venture 1 (2) Prologis $ 79.5 February 2014 Venture Partner $ 450.9 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 Prologis $ 71.0 March 2015 Venture Partner $ 402.1 Total Unconsolidated Prologis $ 175.1 Venture Partners $ 951.1 Prologis Brazil Logistics Partners Fund Prologis $ 149.2 December 2013 Venture Partner $ 149.2 Total Consolidated Prologis $ 149.2 Venture Partners $ 149.2 Grand Total Prologis $ 324.3 Venture Partners $ 1,100.3 (1) These equity commitments will be called only to pay outstanding debt of the venture. The debt is due in the third quarter of 2012, with an option to extend until the third quarter of 2013. (2) Equity commitments are denominated in euro and reported above in U.S. dollars. In addition to the co investment ventures listed above, we obtained additional equity commitments of 82 million (approximately $110.3 million) from our partners in October 2011 in an unconsolidated co investment venture, Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund. This equity was called in October 2011 to cover the acquisition of properties from us. One of our unconsolidated co investment ventures, Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund, used its remaining equity commitments in the fourth quarter of 2011 to cover the acquisition of 40 properties from us. For more information on our investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $207.1 million, $240.8 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash provided by operating activities was less than the cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests by $224.4 million, $66.9 million and $209.7 million, respectively. We used proceeds from the disposition of real estate properties ($1.6 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009) to fund dividends on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests not covered by cash flows from operating activities. 37 Table of Contents Cash Investing and Cash Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, investing activities used net cash of $233.1 million and provided net cash of $733.3 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: We generated cash from contributions and dispositions of properties and land parcels of $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we contributed and disposed of land, land subject to ground leases and 169 properties that included the majority of our non core assets. In 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land and 214 and 183 properties, respectively. We invested $1.2 billion, $543.9 million and $1.3 billion in real estate during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; including costs for current and future development projects and recurring capital expenditures and tenant improvements on existing operating properties. In 2011, we acquired eight properties with an aggregate purchase price of $86.5 million. In connection with the Merger, we acquired $234.0 million in cash in 2011. During the second quarter 2011, we used $1.0 billion of cash to purchase units in PEPR (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). The acquisition was funded with borrowings on a new 500 million bridge facility (PEPR Bridge Facility) that was put in place for the acquisition and borrowings under our credit facilities. The borrowings on the PEPR Bridge Facility were repaid with proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering. We invested cash of $37.8 million, $335.4 million and $401.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in unconsolidated investees including investments in connection with property contributions we made, net of repayment of advances by the investees. We received distributions from unconsolidated investees as a return of investment and proceeds from the sale of our investments of $170.2 million, $220.2 million and $81.2 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we received $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our China operations and our property fund interests in Japan. The proceeds were used to pay down borrowings on our Credit Facilities. We generated net cash proceeds from payments on notes receivable of $6.5 million, $18.4 million and $12.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the first quarter of 2011, we invested $55.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of the buyer of a portfolio of non core assets. In 2010, we invested $188.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of a buyer of a portfolio of assets and we purchased an $81.0 million loan to ProLogis North American Industrial Fund II from the lender. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, financing activities provided net cash of $163.3 million and used net cash of $969.8 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: In 2011, we repurchased and extinguished $894.5 million of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes and secured mortgage debt for a total of $894.2 million. In 2010, we repurchased and extinguished $3.0 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $3.1 billion. In 2009, we repurchased and extinguished $1.5 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $1.2 billion. In 2011, we incurred $577.9 million in secured mortgage debt and borrowed $721.0 million on the PEPR Bridge Facility. In 2010, we issued $1.1 billion of senior notes due 2017 and 2020 and $460.0 million of exchangeable senior notes due 2015. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our Credit Facilities. We also incurred $300.3 million in secured mortgage debt. In 2009, we issued $950.0 million of senior notes and $498.9 million of secured mortgage debt. We had net payments on our credit facilities of $37.6 million, $246.3 million and $2.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger, we repaid the outstanding balance under our existing global line of credit and entered into new Credit Facilities. In 2011, we used $711.8 million in proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering to repay the amounts borrowed under the PEPR Bridge Facility. In addition, we made net payments of $263.7 million, $257.5 million and $351.8 million on regularly scheduled debt principal and maturity payments during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This includes the repayment of 101.3 million ($146.8 million) of the euro notes that matured in April 2011. In June 2011, we completed the 2011 Equity Offering and issued 34.5 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. In November of 2010, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 41.1 million common shares. In April 2009, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 78.0 million common shares. We generated proceeds from the sale and issuance of common stock under our various common share plans of $30.8 million and $337.4 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily from our at the market equity issuance program. We had minimal activity in 2011. The at the market equity program was terminated in connection with the Merger. 38 Table of Contents We paid distributions of $387.1 million, $280.7 million and $271.8 million to our common stockholders during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We paid dividends on our preferred stock of $27.0 million, $25.4 million and $25.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we received proceeds of $123.9 million from our noncontrolling interest partners, primarily for the purchase of real estate properties by our consolidated co investment venture, Mexico Fondo Logistico. In addition, we distributed $17.4 million to noncontrolling interests in 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures Debt We had investments in and advances to certain unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2011 of $2.4 billion. These unconsolidated ventures had total third party debt of $9.3 billion (in the aggregate, not our proportionate share) at December 31, 2011 that matures as follows (in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Discount/ Premium Total (1) Prologis California LLC $ $ $ 137.5 $ $ 52.5 $ 120.0 $ $ 310.0 Prologis North American Properties Fund I 108.7 108.7 Prologis North American Properties Fund XI 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund 52.0 80.0 108.7 444.0 559.5 1,244.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund II (2) 159.6 75.3 476.1 74.8 136.5 325.7 (4.7) 1,243.3 Prologis North American IndustrialFund III (3) 203.5 385.6 146.4 280.0 (1.4) 1,014.1 Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund 42.6 188.8 102.5 280.7 158.6 810.0 15.2 1,598.4 Prologis Mexico Industrial Fund 214.1 214.1 Prologis SGP Mexico (4) 62.4 3.7 3.9 4.1 144.8 218.9 Prologis European Properties Fund II (5) 13.6 485.4 223.5 462.3 229.8 209.3 1,623.9 Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund 9.3 9.4 388.7 226.9 2.3 2.4 12.8 651.8 Prologis Japan Fund 1 (6) 218.5 529.5 1.8 120.7 81.5 9.4 961.4 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 100.0 100.0 Total property funds $ 870.9 $ 1,758.1 $ 1,478.6 $ 1,159.3 $ 1,389.2 $ 2,602.5 $ 31.4 $ 9,290.0 (1) As of December 31, 2011, we had guaranteed $6.9 million of the third party debt of the co investment ventures. In our role as the manager, we work with the co investment ventures to refinance their maturing debt. There can be no assurance that the co investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of the ventures also have credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds. Generally, the co investment ventures issue long term debt and utilize the proceeds to repay borrowings under the credit facilities. (2) In February 2012, we bought out our partner and own 100% of this venture and will begin consolidating. In connection with this transaction, we repaid the loan this venture had to our partner of $334.6 million. We had a note receivable from this fund of $78.9 million that will now eliminate in consolidation. (3) We have a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $21.4 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. In February 2012, this loan payable to us and loans from Prologis North American Industrial Fund III payable to our partner were restructured into equity according to our ownership percentages. This resulted in additional equity to us of approximately $25 million. (4) Through the Merger we acquired a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $19.8 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. This venture has capital commitments from us and our partner that we expect to be used to repay this debt maturing in 2012. (5) PEPF II has a 150 million ($196.1 million) credit facility. The facility is denominated in euro and pound sterling. (6) The debt included in 2012 maturities is due October 2012. The co investment venture expects to re finance the debt in the first half of 2012. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Long Term Contractual Obligations We had long term contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than5 years Debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities $ 10,387 $ 1,220 $ 3,272 $ 2,130 $ 3,765 Interest on debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities 2,506 532 862 585 527 Unfunded commitments on the development portfolio (1) 306 306 Operating lease payments 331 26 44 33 228 Amounts due on Credit Facilities 935 291 644 Interest on Credit Facilities 70 16 47 7 Totals $ 14,535 $ 2,100 $ 4,516 $ 3,399 $ 4,520 (1) We had properties in our development portfolio (completed and under development) at December 31, 2011 with a total expected investment of $1.2 billion. The unfunded commitments presented include not only those costs that we are obligated to fund under construction contracts, but all costs necessary to place the property into service, including the estimated costs of tenant improvements, marketing and leasing costs which we will incur as the property is leased. Other Commitments On a continuing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition and or disposition of individual properties or portfolios of properties. Distribution and Dividend Requirements Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure we will meet the dividend requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to meet other needs such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.25 (adjusted by Merger exchange ratio) per common share for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash dividend of $0.28 per common share for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2011. A cash distribution of $0.28 for the first quarter of 2012 was declared on February 22, 2012. This distribution will be paid on March 30, 2012 to holders of common shares on March 12, 2012. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. At December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding. The annual dividend rates on preferred stock are 6.5% per Series L share, 6.75% per Series M share, 7.0% per Series O share, 6.85% per Series P share, 8.54% per Series Q share, 6.75% per Series R share and 6.75% per Series S share. The Series Q, R and S were preferred shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis prior to the Merger and distributions on those shares have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 through December 31, 2011. The dividends on the remaining preferred stock have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the Merger. The dividends on preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock has been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. Critical Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of an entitys financial condition and results of operations and requires judgment on the part of management. Generally, the judgment requires management to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are prepared using managements best judgment, after considering past and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, those presented below have been identified by us as critical accounting policies. 40 Table of Contents Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We assess the carrying values of our respective long lived assets, including goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we consider current market conditions, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Our intent with regard to the underlying assets might change as market conditions change, as well as other factors, especially in the current global economic environment. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques; including discounted cash flow models, applying a capitalization rate to estimated net operating income of a property, quoted market values and third party appraisals, where considered necessary. The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the real estate property. We use a two step approach to our goodwill impairment evaluation. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify whether there is any potential impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its corresponding book value, including goodwill, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed. The second step requires that we compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Assumptions and estimates used in the recoverability analyses for future cash flows, discount rates and capitalization rates are complex and subjective. Changes in economic and operating conditions or our intent with regard to our investment that occurs subsequent to our impairment analyses could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment of our real estate properties and or goodwill. Other than Temporary Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Investees When circumstances indicate there may have been a reduction in the value of an equity investment, we evaluate whether the loss in value is other than temporary. If we determine there is a loss in value that is other than temporary, we recognize an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. The use of projected future cash flows and other estimates of fair value, the determination of when a loss is other than temporary, and the calculation of the amount of the loss, is complex and subjective. Use of other estimates and assumptions may result in different conclusions. Changes in economic and operating conditions, as well as changes in our intent with regard to our investment, that occur subsequent to our review could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment charges of our equity investments. Revenue Recognition Gains on Disposition of Real Estate We recognize gains from the contributions and sales of real estate assets, generally at the time the title is transferred, consideration is received and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. In many of our transactions, an entity in which we have an ownership interest will acquire a real estate asset from us. We make judgments based on the specific terms of each transaction as to the amount of the total profit from the transaction that we recognize given our continuing ownership interest and our level of future involvement with the investee that acquires the assets. We also make judgments regarding recognition in earnings of certain fees and incentives based on when they are earned, fixed and determinable. Business Combinations We acquire individual properties, as well as portfolios of properties, or businesses. When we acquire a business or individual operating properties, with the intention to hold the investment for the long term, we allocate the purchase price to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The components typically include land, building, debt, intangible assets related to above and below market leases, value of costs to obtain tenants, deferred tax liabilities and other assumed assets and liabilities in the case of an acquisition of a business. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value and often times is based upon the expected future cash flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located. The fair value may also include an enterprise value premium that we estimate a third party would be willing to pay for a portfolio of properties. The initial allocation of the purchase price is based on managements preliminary assessment, which may differ when final information becomes available. Subsequent adjustments made to the initial purchase price allocation are made within the allocation period, which typically does not exceed one year. Consolidation We consolidate all entities that are wholly owned and those in which we own less than 100% but control, as well as any variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. We evaluate our ability to control an entity and whether the entity is a variable interest entity and we are the primary beneficiary through consideration of the substantive terms of the arrangement to identify which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impacts the entitys economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Investments in entities in which we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are presented under the equity method. Investments in entities that we do not control and over which we do not exercise significant influence are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, as appropriate. Our ability to correctly assess our influence and or control over an entity affects the presentation of these investments in our consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents Capitalization of Costs and Depreciation We capitalize costs incurred in developing, renovating, rehabilitating, and improving real estate assets as part of the investment basis. Costs incurred in making repairs and maintaining real estate assets are expensed as incurred. During the land development and construction periods, we capitalize interest costs, insurance, real estate taxes and certain general and administrative costs of the personnel performing development, renovations, and rehabilitation if such costs are incremental and identifiable to a specific activity to get the asset ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of real estate assets. We also capitalize costs incurred to successfully originate a lease that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition of that lease. Leasing costs that meet the requirements for capitalization are presented as a component of other assets. We estimate the depreciable portion of our real estate assets and related useful lives in order to record depreciation expense. Our ability to estimate the depreciable portions of our real estate assets and useful lives is critical to the determination of the appropriate amount of depreciation expense recorded and the carrying value of the underlying assets. Any change to the assets to be depreciated and the estimated depreciable lives of these assets would have an impact on the depreciation expense recognized. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income tax liability, the liability associated with open tax years that are under review and our compliance with REIT requirements. Our estimates are based on interpretation of tax laws. We estimate our actual current income tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for book and tax purposes resulting in the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. These estimates may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in assessments of the recognition of income tax benefits for certain non routine transactions, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, our inability to qualify as a REIT, the potential for built in gain recognition, changes in the assessment of properties to be contributed to taxable REIT subsidiaries and changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included within income tax expense. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Funds from Operations (FFO) FFO is a non GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) has published a definition of FFO, which was amended in late 2011, further modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business. FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance. NAREITs FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation, gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated properties. We agree that these NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons: historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP assumes, through depreciation charges, that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. NAREIT stated in its White Paper on FFO since real estate asset values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Consequently, NAREITs definition of FFO reflects the fact that real estate, as an asset class, generally appreciates over time and depreciation charges required by GAAP do not reflect the underlying economic realities. REITs were created as a legal form of organization in order to encourage public ownership of real estate as an asset class through investment in firms that were in the business of long term ownership and management of real estate. The exclusion, in NAREITs definition of FFO, of gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated operating real estate assets allows investors and analysts to readily identify the operating results of the long term assets that form the core of a REITs activity and assists in comparing those operating results between periods. We include the gains and losses from dispositions of land and development properties in FFO. As a result, if we recognize impairment charges related to these types of properties, we also include the impairment charges in the calculation of FFO as defined by NAREIT. We exclude from FFO as defined by NAREIT gains and losses from dispositions of properties, other than land and development properties, which we refer to as Non FFO properties, as well as any related impairment charges. We include or exclude our share of these items recognized by our unconsolidated investees on the same basis. 42 Table of Contents Our FFO Measures At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community. We believe stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. We use these FFO measures, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties. The long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating our FFO measures are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long term outlook. We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs. FFO, as defined by Prologis: To arrive at FFO, as defined by Prologis, we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude: (i) deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries; (ii) current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the extent the expense is offset with a deferred income tax benefit in GAAP earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; (iii) foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from debt transactions between us and our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; (iv) foreign currency exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement (based on current foreign currency exchange rates) of certain third party debt of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; and (v) mark to market adjustments associated with derivative financial instruments. We calculate FFO, as defined by Prologis for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our FFO, as defined by Prologis. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Core FFO In addition to FFO, as defined by Prologis, we also use Core FFO. To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as defined by Prologis, to exclude the following recurring and non recurring items that we recognized directly or our share recognized by our unconsolidated investees to the extent they are included in FFO, as defined by Prologis: (i) gains or losses from acquisition, contribution or sale of land or development properties; (ii) income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate; (iii) impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate (either directly or through our investments in unconsolidated investees) generally as a result of our change in intent to contribute or sell these properties; (iv) impairment charges of goodwill and other assets; (v) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; (vi) merger, acquisition and other integration expenses; and (vii) expenses related to natural disasters We believe it is appropriate to further adjust our FFO, as defined by Prologis for certain recurring items as they were driven by transactional activity and factors relating to the financial and real estate markets, rather than factors specific to the on going operating performance of our properties or investments. The impairment charges we recognized were primarily based on valuations of real estate, which had declined due to market conditions, that we no longer expected to hold for long term investment. We currently have and have had over the past several years a stated priority to strengthen our financial position. We expect to accomplish this by reducing our debt, our investment in certain low yielding assets, such as land that we decide not to develop and our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. As a result, we have sold to third parties or contributed to unconsolidated investees real estate properties that, depending on market conditions, might result in a gain or loss. The impairment charges related to goodwill and other assets that we have recognized were similarly caused by the decline in the real 43 Table of Contents estate markets. Also in connection with our stated priority to reduce debt and extend debt maturities, we have purchased portions of our debt securities. As a result, we recognized net gains or losses on the early extinguishment of certain debt due to the financial market conditions at that time. We have also adjusted for some non recurring items. The merger, acquisition and other integration expenses include costs we incurred in 2011 and that we expect to incur in 2012 associated with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition and the integration of our systems and processes. We have not adjusted for the acquisition costs that we have incurred as a result of routine acquisitions but only the costs associated with significant business combinations that we would expect to be infrequent in nature. Similarly, the expenses related to the natural disaster in Japan that we recognized in 2011 are a rare occurrence but we may incur similar expenses again in the future. We analyze our operating performance primarily by the rental income of our real estate and the revenue driven by our private capital business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities. As a result, although these items have had a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal of the effects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. We use Core FFO, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; (v) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (vi) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties we own. As noted above, we believe the long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREITs nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, they are only part of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are: The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures represent the taxes that are payable. Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Further, the amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of industrial properties are not reflected in FFO. Gains or losses from property acquisitions and dispositions or impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent changes in the value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, our FFO measures do not capture realized changes in the value of acquired or disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions. The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures result from the creation of a deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our defined FFO measures do not currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures are generally recognized based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign currency denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements. The impairment charges of goodwill and other assets that we exclude from Core FFO, have been or may be realized as a loss in the future upon the ultimate disposition of the related investments or other assets through the form of lower cash proceeds. The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or cost to us as we may be settling our debt at less or more than our future obligation. The Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses and the natural disaster expenses that we exclude from Core FFO are costs that we have incurred. We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP. 44 Table of Contents FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares was $411.7 million, a negative $974.2 million and $185.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Core FFO attributable to common shares as defined by us was $593.9 million, $237.4 million and $416.7 million for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in Core FFO is primarily due to the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, both of which substantially increased our investments in real estate properties directly and through our unconsolidated investments as discussed earlier. The reconciliations of Core FFO and FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares to net earnings attributable to common shares computed under GAAP are as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 FFO: Reconciliation of net loss to FFO measures: Net loss attributable to common shares $ (188,110) $ (1,295,920) $ (2,650) Add (deduct) NAREIT defined adjustments: Real estate related depreciation and amortization 566,328 295,182 248,267 Impairment of non FFO operating properties 5,300 126,987 46,624 Net gains on dispositions of non FFO operating properties (39,812) (196,080) (168,177) Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests (19,889) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees 147,608 141,721 132,971 Subtotal NAREIT defined FFO 471,425 (928,110) 257,035 Add (deduct) our defined adjustments: Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net (39,034) 11,487 (58,128) Deferred income tax expense (benefit) (19,803) (52,223) (19,641) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees (900) (5,351) 6,243 FFO, as defined by Prologis 411,688 (974,197) 185,509 Impairment charges 145,028 1,110,072 448,612 Natural disaster expenses 5,210 Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses 140,495 Our share of losses (gains) on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net (115,577) (110,786) (65,587) Losses (gains) on early extinguishment of debt (258) 201,486 (172,258) Income tax expense on dispositions 7,331 10,783 20,466 Core FFO $ 593,917 $ 237,358 $ 416,742 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. We have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. We have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. The sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer term debt issuances. At December 31, 2011, we have &yen;61.1 billion ($788.4 million) in TMK bond agreements and a &yen;12.5 billion ($161.3 million) term loan with variable interest rates. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on &yen;21.8 billion ($281.2 million as of December 31, 2011) of the TMK bonds and the entire term loan for the term of the agreements. At December 31, 2011, we have also entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on 771.6 million ($1.0 billion) of secured debt, of which 743.6 million ($972.2 million) relates to PEPR, with variable interest rates. In 2011, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $870.9 million on our variable rate Credit Facilities. Based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, which assumed a 10% adverse change in interest rates, the estimated market risk exposure for the variable rate lines of credit was approximately $1.8 million of cash flow in 2011. 45 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars, principally euro, British pound sterling and yen. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. We also may use foreign currency put option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated investees. At December 31, 2011, we had no put option contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. At December 31, 2011, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company We are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated ventures, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises. Of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2011: approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2% occupied; approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased; 24 Table of Contents approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and non industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio. Prologis, Inc. is a self administered and self managed real estate investment trust, and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. We operate the REIT and the Operating Partnership as one enterprise, and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to the REIT and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, collectively. On June 3, 2011, we completed the Merger in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of AMB common stock for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis. Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Therefore, pre Merger activity included in the Management Discussion and Analysis is the activity of ProLogis and does not include AMB results until June 3, 2011. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating PEPR. We have recorded the purchase price allocations for both the Merger of $5.9 billion and PEPR Acquisition of $1.6 billion in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not provide as meaningful of information as if those transactions were reflected in both periods. As a result of this Merger, we have identified more than $115 million on an annualized basis of merger cost synergies, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year end 2012. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Business Strategy Our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Private Capital. We generate revenues, earnings, net operating income, and funds from operations, both as defined below, and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as follows: Real Estate Operations Segment Rental Operations This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or FFO as defined below). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company. Capital Deployment Activities Our development and re development activities support our rental operations and are, therefore, included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co investment ventures for long term hold, for contribution into one of our co investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan, we are developing directly while in emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co investment ventures. Private Capital Segment We co invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co investment ventures. We have a direct and long standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital in both close ended and open ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10 50% in the ventures. We believe our co investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co investment partners interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third party capital in our existing ventures. In 2009, we recognized income in the CDFS business segment related to gains from the Japan property funds that were deferred upon original contributions and triggered with the sale of our investments. We no longer have a CDFS business segment. 25 Table of Contents Summary of 2011 During the year ended December 31, 2011, we completed the following activities in support of our strategic priorities: Completed the Merger on June 3, 2011 and have completed the majority of the integration activities. Completed the PEPR Acquisition in May 2011. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we increased our debt to $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we have reduced our debt to $11.4 billion due primarily to repayments that were funded with proceeds from dispositions of properties. As of June 30, 2011 our total owned and managed portfolio, including consolidated and unconsolidated properties, was 90.7% occupied and 91.3% leased. As a result of significant leasing activity in the second half of 2011 we increased to 92.2% occupied and 92.5% leased, as of December 31, 2011. Issued 34.5 million shares of common stock in a public offering at a price of $33.50 per share, generating approximately $1.1 billion in net proceeds (2011 Equity Offering) in late June 2011. Entered into a new global senior credit agreement, terminated our existing global line of credit and amended a yen revolving credit agreement. Completed an exchange offer in June 2011 for ProLogis senior notes and exchangeable senior notes. Operational Outlook Despite the ongoing slowdown in the global economic recovery, fourth quarter real estate fundamentals in the U.S. industrial markets continued to improve consistent with the improvement we saw in the third quarter. Though down from its rebound third quarter level, net absorption of U.S. industrial space measured 28 million square feet in the fourth quarter. Net absorption has been positive for the last six consecutive quarters, reducing the availability rate by 90 basis points during that time. At 13.6%, availability is at its lowest level since the second quarter of 2009. Net effective rent has made modest improvements, and as a result, some speculative development is beginning in selected locations such as Miami, Washington D.C., Seattle, Southern California, and Houston. Though economic growth remains relatively moderate, inventories continue to rise, and utilization rates have been on an overall upward trajectory since late 2010. In the U.S., net absorption totaled more than 117 million square feet in 2011, representing a remarkable improvement over the past few years, and we expect net absorption of 150 175 million square feet in 2012. Within Europe and Japan, we believe significant supply chain reconfiguration, the ongoing globalization of Central and Eastern Europe, obsolescence and strong tenant preference to rent rather than own will fuel additional demand for industrial space. Moreover, the undersupply of Class A distribution space in Japan has and will continue to create demand for more modern, earthquake resistant product, especially as Japan rebuilds and regroups from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, which temporarily interrupted its supply chain. Demand in emerging markets where we have investments primarily through our co investment ventures, such as Brazil, China, and Mexico, remains strong. In our total owned and managed operating portfolio, which includes properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated co investment ventures that are accounted for under the equity method and including properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 138.8 million square feet of space in 2011. Excluding the properties that were part of the Merger, we leased 119.4 million square feet of space during the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective rental rates on leases signed during the fourth quarter of 2011 in our same store portfolio (as defined below) decreased by 4.5% when compared with the rental rates on the previous leases on that same space. The total owned and managed portfolio was 92.2% occupied at December 31, 2011, up from 89.0% at December 31, 2010. Our existing customers renewed their leases 74.7% of the time in 2011 as compared with 79.5% in 2010. We believe that capital deployment opportunities are increasing and we are currently evaluating multiple opportunities in our global and regional markets around the globe. Our development business consists of speculative development, build to suit development, value added coversions and redevelopment. We expect to develop directly and within the co investment structures depending on location, market conditions, submarkets or building sites, and availability of capital. We believe that developing, redeveloping and or expanding of well located, high quality industrial properties provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from purchasing existing properties. However, development projects may require significant management attention and capital investment to maximize returns. During 2011, in response to this emerging demand, we (including ProLogis, AMB pre Merger, and unconsolidated entities) commenced development of 42 properties totaling 10.8 million square feet with a total expected investment of $1.0 billion. Of this amount, $863.5 million is our share and $153.2 million is the share of our co investment venture partners. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary The following table illustrates the net operating income for each of our segments, along with the reconciling items to Loss from Continuing Operations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net operating income real estate operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 Net operating income private capital segment 82,657 81,867 101,547 Net operating income CDFS business segment 180,237 General and administrative expenses (195,161) (165,981) (192,231) Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses (140,495) Impairment of real estate properties (21,237) (736,612) (331,592) Depreciation and amortization (585,323) (311,268) (266,364) Earnings from unconsolidated investees, net 59,935 23,678 28,059 Interest expense (468,738) (461,166) (372,768) Impairment of goodwill and other assets (126,432) (412,745) (163,644) Interest and other income (expense), net 12,008 15,847 (39,349) Gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net 111,684 28,488 35,262 Foreign currency exchange and derivative gains (losses), net 41,172 (11,081) 35,626 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, net 258 (201,486) 172,258 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,776) 30,499 (5,975) Loss from continuing operations $ (244,459) $ (1,589,462) $ (355,089) See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our segments and a reconciliation of net operating income to Loss Before Income Taxes. Real Estate Operations Segment The net operating income of the Real Estate Operations segment consisted of rental income and rental expenses from industrial properties that we own and consolidate and is impacted by our capital deployment activities. The size and percentage of occupancy of our consolidated operating portfolio fluctuates due to the timing of acquisitions, development activity and contributions. Such fluctuations affect the net operating income we recognize in this segment in a particular period. Also included in this segment is revenue from land we own and lease to customers under ground leases and development management and other income, offset by acquisition costs and land holding costs. As discussed earlier, results for 2011 included approximately seven months of rental income and expenses from the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. The results of properties that were sold to third parties are presented as Discontinued Operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for all periods and therefore do not impact the segment results. The net operating income from the Real Estate Operations segment for the years ended December 31, was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Rental and other income $ 1,395,672 $ 762,061 $ 701,971 Rental and other expenses 408,683 231,563 238,126 Total net operating income Real Estate Operations segment $ 986,989 $ 530,498 $ 463,845 The increases in rental income and rental expenses in 2011 from 2010 are due principally to the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition, increased occupancy in our consolidated operating portfolio (from 85.9% at December 31, 2010 to 91.4% at December 31, 2011) and the completion and stabilization of new development properties. The results for 2011 include approximately seven months of rental income and rental expenses from properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition of $565.5 million and $147.6 million, respectively. In our consolidated portfolio, we leased 63.4 million square feet in 2011 compared to 57.3 million square feet in 2010. The increase in net operating income in 2010 over 2009 is due primarily to increased occupancy in the development portfolio. We calculate the change in effective rental rates on the previous leases on that same space for leases signed during a quarter, based on our same store portfolio (as defined below). During 2011 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 8.9% to a decrease of 4.5%. During 2010 (over the four quarters), the percentage change in rental rates ranged from a decrease of 15.7% to a decrease of 8.5%. The decrease was due to: (i) leases turning that were put in place when market rents were at or near peak; and (ii) decreased market rents. Under the terms of our lease agreements, we are able to recover the majority of our rental expenses from customers. Rental expense recoveries, included in both rental income and rental expenses, were $283.1 million, $161.0 million and $150.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Our consolidated operating portfolio as of December 31 was as follows (square feet in thousands): Number ofProperties Square Feet Leased % 2011 (1) 1,797 291,051 91.7% 2010 985 168,547 87.6% 2009 1,188 191,623 82.7% (1) The amount at December 31, 2011 included 848 properties with 126.3 million square feet that were acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition. Private Capital Segment The net operating income of the Private Capital segment consisted of fees and incentives earned for services performed for our unconsolidated investees and certain third parties, reduced by our direct costs of managing these entities and the properties they own. The direct costs associated with our Private Capital segment totaled $55.0 million, $40.7 million and $43.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in the line item Private Capital Expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8. These expenses include the direct expenses associated with the asset management of the unconsolidated co investment ventures provided by individuals who are assigned to our Private Capital segment. In addition, in order to achieve efficiencies and economies of scale, all of our property management functions are provided by a team of professionals who are assigned to our Real Estate Operations segment. These individuals perform the property level management of the properties in our owned and managed portfolio including properties we consolidate and the properties we manage that are owned by the unconsolidated investees. We allocate the costs of our property management function to the properties we consolidate (reported in Rental Expenses) and the properties owned by the unconsolidated investees (included in Private Capital Expenses), by using the square feet owned by the respective portfolios. The increase in Private Capital Expenses in 2011 is due to the increased private capital platform and infrastructure that was part of the Merger, offset partially with a decline in the portion of our property management expenses that are allocated to this segment due to the consolidation of PEPR. The net operating income from the Private Capital segment for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Unconsolidated ventures: Americas (1) $ 42,644 $ 40,354 $ 44,284 Europe (2) 30,708 41,200 34,508 Asia (3) 9,305 313 22,755 Total net operating income Private Capital segment $ 82,657 $ 81,867 $ 101,547 (1) Represents the fees earned by us from 10, 10 and 12 unconsolidated co investment ventures for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reduced by private capital expenses. In connection with the Merger, we added three co investment ventures in the Americas (with investments in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil). In December 2010, we sold our interests in three U.S. co investment ventures. (2) Represents the fees earned by us from several different unconsolidated co investment ventures, reduced by private capital expenses. In 2011, we had one co investment venture during the entire year, we included PEPR up to the date we began consolidating at the end of May 2011, and added two co investment ventures acquired through the Merger. In 2010 and 2009, we had two co investment ventures for the entire year. (3) Represents the fees earned by us from our investments in three unconsolidated co investment ventures in 2011 and only one co investment venture in South Korea during 2010, reduced by private capital expenses. We sold our investment in the Korea co investment venture during the third quarter 2011. With the Merger, we acquired an investment in an unconsolidated co investment venture in each of Japan and China. In addition to the Korea co investment venture in 2009, we had two co investment ventures in Japan that were sold in February of 2009. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information on our unconsolidated investees. CDFS Business Segment Net operating income of the CDFS business segment for 2009 was $180.2 million. As previously discussed, our business strategy no longer includes the CDFS business segment. The amount in 2009 is the recognition of gains previously deferred from the contribution of properties and recognized due to the sale of our investments in the Japan co investment venture in February 2009. 28 Table of Contents Other Components of Income General and Administrative (G&A) Expense and Reduction in Workforce (RIF) G&A expenses for the years ended December 31 consisted of the following (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Gross G&A expense (1) $ 332,632 $ 266,932 $ 304,153 Reported as rental expenses (24,741) (19,709) (19,446) Reported as private capital expenses (54,962) (40,659) (43,416) Capitalized amounts (57,768) (40,583) (49,060) Net G&A $ 195,161 $ 165,981 $ 192,231 (1) 2009 included expenses related to a RIF program. At the end of 2008, in response to the difficult economic climate, we initiated G &A expense reductions. These initiatives included a RIF plan that had a total cost of $11.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in G&A expenses and the various components from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to the Merger, PEPR Acquisition and the larger infrastructure associated with our larger company. Overall G&A expense decreased from 2009 to 2010 due to lower gross G&A expense, as a result of the RIF program in 2009 and various cost savings measures, offset by lower capitalized G&A. Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses In connection with the Merger and other related activities, we have incurred significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; system conversion costs; and other integration costs. These costs are expensed as incurred. The costs that were obligations of AMB and expensed pre Merger are not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. At the time of the Merger, we terminated our existing credit facilities and wrote off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which are included as a merger expense. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR and the reduction in workforce charges associated with dispositions made in 2011. We expect to continue to recognize costs, primarily compensation and severance costs for transitional employees and system conversion and implementation costs through the end of 2012 as incurred. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during 2011 (in thousands): 2011 Termination, severance and transitional employee costs $ 58,445 Professional fees 46,467 Office closure, travel and other costs 24,714 Write off of deferred loan costs 10,869 Total $ 140,495 The majority of the costs incurred in 2011 were incurred during the second quarter of 2011 when the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition were completed. Impairment of Real Estate Properties During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized impairment charges of real estate properties in continuing operations of $21.2 million, $736.6 million and $331.6 million, respectively, due to our change of intent to no longer hold these assets for long term investment. In 2010, the charges primarily included land as a result of our change in strategy. Changes in economic and operating conditions and our ultimate investment intent with regard to our investments in real estate that occur in the future may result in additional impairment charges or gains at the time of sale. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more detail on the process we took to value these assets and the related impairments taken. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense was $585.3 million, $311.3 million and $266.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization expenses associated with the properties acquired through the Merger and PEPR Acquisition (including intangible assets), completed and leased development properties and increased leasing activity. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to the completion, retention and leasing of our developed properties. 29 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense from continued operations, included the following components (in thousands) for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 Gross interest expense $ 500,685 $ 435,289 $ 382,362 Amortization of discount, net 228 47,136 67,542 Amortization of deferred loan costs 20,476 32,402 17,069 Interest expense before capitalization 521,389 514,827 466,973 Capitalized amounts (52,651) (53,661) (94,205) Net interest expense $ 468,738 $ 461,166 $ 372,768 Gross interest expense increased in 2011 from 2010 due primarily to higher debt levels as a result of the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, offset partially by decreased interest rates. The decrease in capitalized amounts in 2011 from 2010 was due to lower interest rates during 2011. During the first part of 2011, we had lower debt balances as a result of repayment and repurchases of debt made in 2010 with proceeds from asset sales and the November 2010 equity offering. We reduced our outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 to $6.5 billion. In connection with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, we added approximately $5.9 billion of debt at fair value at the beginning of June 2011 and approximately seven months of related interest expense in 2011. At December 31, 2011, our debt balance was $11.4 billion, a decrease from $12.1 billion at June 30, 2011, primarily due to repayments funded by proceeds received from the dispositions of properties. All of these activities have resulted in a lower weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of premiums, discounts and deferred loan costs) of 5.58% in 2011, as compared with 6.48% in 2010. The increase in interest expense in 2010 over 2009 is due to increased borrowing rates and lower capitalization due to less development activity in 2010. In addition, in 2010 we wrote off $7.7 million in deferred loan costs based on the proportionate amount that we reduced our borrowing capacity on our global line of credit. The lower amortization of discount is due to the buyback of exchangeable debt that includes a non cash discount. Our weighted average effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred loan costs) was 5.34% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our future interest expense, both gross and the portion capitalized, will vary depending on, among other things, the level of our development activities, which we expect will increase subsequent to the Merger. See Notes 3 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion of our debt and borrowing costs. Earnings from Unconsolidated Investees, Net We recognized net earnings of $59.9 million, $23.7 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These earnings relate to our investment in unconsolidated investees that are accounted for on the equity method. The primary reason for the increase in 2011 over 2010 is due to the investments we acquired through the Merger, partially offset by the consolidation of PEPR. The earnings we recognize are impacted by: (i) variances in revenues and expenses of the entity; (ii) the size and occupancy rate of the portfolio of properties owned by the entity; (iii) our ownership interest in the entity; and (iv) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars, if applicable. We manage the majority of the properties in which we have an ownership interest as part of our total owned and managed portfolio. See discussion of our portfolio results in the section, Portfolio Information. See also Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets Based on our review of goodwill in 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $368.5 million related to goodwill allocated to the Real Estate Operations segment in the Americas and Europe reporting units. The review of goodwill was triggered by the strategic decision we made in the fourth quarter of 2010 to significantly downsize our development platform and, as a result, to sell to third parties certain other assets, some of which were acquired in the acquisitions that originally created the goodwill. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $126.4 million, $44.3 million and $163.6 million, respectively, on certain of our investments in and advances to unconsolidated investees, notes receivable and other assets, as we did not believe these amounts to be recoverable based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with these assets, including estimated sales proceeds or we believed the decline in fair value to be other than temporary. See Notes 2 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our process with regard to analyzing the recoverability of goodwill and other assets. Also see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on our unconsolidated investees. 30 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net We recognized interest and other income not allocated to a segment of $12.0 million and $15.8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and other expense of $39.3 million in 2009. The primary components in 2009 were adjustments of $20.3 million to accruals we had related to rent indemnifications we had made to certain co investment ventures due to changes in leasing and other assumptions and settlement costs of $13.0 million related to an obligation we assumed in the 2005 acquisition of Catellus. Gains on Acquisitions and Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net During 2011, we recognized net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $111.7 million. This included gains recognized in the second quarter related to the PEPR Acquisition ($85.9 million) and the acquisition of our partners interest in a joint venture in Japan ($13.5 million) and the contribution or sale of properties to unconsolidated co investment ventures. The gains represent the adjustment to fair value of our equity investments at the time we gained control and consolidated the entities. The contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $590.8 million and net gains of $12.3 million. During 2010, we recognized net gains on dispositions of investments in real estate in continuing operations of $28.5 million, which related to the contribution of land and operating properties to unconsolidated investees ($58.3 million gain), additional proceeds from contributions we made to PEPF II in 2009 based on valuations received as of December 31, 2010 and our contribution agreement with the fund ($27.4 million gain) and the sale of land parcels to third parties ($7.4 million gain), offset by a loss of $64.6 million related to the sale of certain unconsolidated investees. The 2010 contribution activity resulted in cash proceeds of $469.7 million related to the contribution of development properties aggregating 2.1 million square feet and land to unconsolidated investees, and the sale of 90% of two development properties in Japan with 1.3 million square feet. We continue to own 10% of the Japan properties, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and we continue to manage the properties. During 2009, we recognized net gains of $35.3 million related to the contribution of properties ($13.0 million), the recognition of previously deferred gains from PEPR and ProLogis Korea Fund on properties they sold to third parties ($9.9 million), the sale of land parcels ($6.4 million), and a gain on settlement of an obligation to our fund partner in connection with the restructure of one of our Americas funds ($6.0 million). The contribution activity resulted in total cash proceeds of $643.7 million and included 43 properties aggregating 9.2 million square feet to PEPF II. If we realize a gain on contribution or sale of a property to an unconsolidated investee, we recognize the portion attributable to the third party ownership in the entity. If we realize a loss on contribution, we recognize the full amount as soon as it is known. Due to our continuing involvement through our ownership in the co investment venture, these dispositions are not included in discontinued operations. Foreign Currency Exchange and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net We and certain of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries may have intercompany or third party debt that is not denominated in the entitys functional currency. When the debt is remeasured against the functional currency of the entity, a gain or loss may result. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity when appropriate. Certain of our intercompany debt is remeasured with the resulting adjustment recognized as a cumulative translation adjustment in Foreign Currency Translation Gains (Losses), Net in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). This treatment is applicable to intercompany debt that is deemed to be long term in nature. If the intercompany debt is deemed short term in nature, when the debt is remeasured, we recognize a gain or loss in earnings. We recognized net foreign currency exchange losses of $5.9 million and losses of $11.5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and gains of $58.2 million in 2009, related to the remeasurement of debt. Predominantly the gains or losses recognized in earnings relate to the remeasurement of intercompany loans between the U.S. parent and certain consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and Europe and result from fluctuations in the exchange rates of U.S. dollars to the euro, Japanese yen, British pound sterling and Singapore dollar. In addition, we recognized net foreign currency exchange gains of $2.1 million and $0.4 million and losses of $22.6 million from the settlement of transactions with third parties during December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger and the exchange offer discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, our convertible senior notes became exchangeable senior notes issued by the Operating Partnership that are exchangeable into common stock of the REIT. As a result, the accounting for the exchangeable senior notes has changed and, we are now required to separate the fair value of the derivative instrument (exchange feature) from the debt instrument and account for it separately as a derivative. We adjust the derivative instrument at each reporting period to fair value with the resulting adjustment being recorded in earnings. In 2011, we recognized an unrealized gain of $45.0 million. Gains (Losses) on Early Extinguishment of Debt, Net During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we purchased portions of several series of senior notes, senior exchangeable notes and Eurobonds outstanding and extinguished some secured mortgage debt prior to maturity, which resulted in the recognition of gains of $0.3 million in 2011, losses of $201.5 million in 2010, and gains of $172.3 million in 2009. The gains or losses represent the difference between the recorded debt (net of premiums and discounts and including related debt issuance costs) and the consideration we paid to retire the debt, including fees. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information regarding our debt repurchases. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit (Expense) During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our current income tax expense was $21.6 million, $21.7 million and $29.3 million, respectively. We recognize current income tax expense for income taxes incurred by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as certain state taxes. We also include in current income tax expense the interest associated with our liability for uncertain tax positions. Our current income tax expense fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income and changes in tax and interest rates. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $19.8 million, $52.2 million and $23.3 million, respectively. Deferred income tax expense is generally a function of the periods temporary differences and the utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in certain of our taxable subsidiaries operating in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions. The deferred tax benefit recorded during 2010 is primarily due to impairment charges recorded to the book basis of real estate properties and investments in unconsolidated investees, net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards recorded for certain jurisdictions, and the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to built in gains. In addition, during the second quarter of 2010, we recognized a deferred income tax benefit of approximately $27.5 million resulting from the conversion of two of our European management companies to taxable entities. This conversion was approved by the applicable tax authorities in June 2010 and created an asset for tax purposes that will be utilized against future taxable income as it is amortized. The deferred tax benefit was partially offset by an increase to the valuation allowance in certain jurisdictions because we could not sustain a conclusion that it was more likely than not that we could realize the deferred tax assets and NOL carryforwards. Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations represent a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations of the entity as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations of the component of the entity that has been classified as discontinued operations are reported separately in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land subject to ground leases and 94, 205 and 140 properties, respectively, to third parties that met the requirements to be classified as discontinued operations. Therefore, the results of operations for these disposed properties are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented, along with the gains recognized during the period. See Notes 4 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Foreign Currency Translation (Losses), Net For our consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, we translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars at the time we consolidate those subsidiaries financial statements. Generally, assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments, due to the fluctuations in exchange rates from the beginning of the period to the end of the period, are included in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). During 2011, we recorded unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $171.0 million that related to foreign currency translations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. The euro and pound sterling remained relatively flat from December 31, 2010 to December, 31 2011, but both weakened to the U.S. dollar from the Merger and PEPR Acquisition date to December 31, 2011. These losses were offset slightly by the strengthening of the yen to the U.S. dollar during 2011. During 2010, we recognized unrealized net losses in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $42.3 million related to foreign currency translations of our international business units into U.S. dollars upon consolidation, mainly as a result of the yen strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and pound sterling, from the beginning of the year to December 31, 2010. During 2009, we recognized unrealized net gains in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $59.9 million. This includes $209.2 million in gains, mainly as a result of the strengthening of the British pound sterling to the U.S. dollar offset partially by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the euro and yen. These gains were offset by a decrease in other comprehensive income of $149.3 million, as a result of the sale of our China operations and our investments in the Japan property funds in February 2009, and represents the gains previously included as currency translation adjustments. 32 Table of Contents Portfolio Information Our total owned and managed portfolio of properties includes operating industrial properties and does not include properties under development, properties held for sale or non industrial properties and was as follows as of December 31 (square feet in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Number ofProperties Square Feet Consolidated 1,797 291,051 985 168,547 1,215 192,637 Unconsolidated 1,403 267,752 1,179 255,367 1,289 274,617 Totals 3,200 558,803 2,164 423,914 2,504 467,254 Same Store Analysis We evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and manage using a same store analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, thereby eliminating the effects of changes in the composition of the portfolio on performance measures. We include properties owned by us, and properties owned by the unconsolidated co investment ventures (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us (referred to as unconsolidated investees), in our same store analysis. We have defined the same store portfolio, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, as those properties that were in operation at January 1, 2010 and also December 31, 2011, including completed development properties. We have removed all properties that were disposed of to a third party or were classified as held for sale from the population for both periods. We believe the factors that impact rental income, rental expenses and net operating income in the same store portfolio are generally the same as for the total portfolio. In order to derive an appropriate measure of period to period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the current exchange rate to translate from local currency into U.S. dollars, for both periods. The same store portfolio included 538.4 million of aggregated square feet. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental income, rental expenses and net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses) for the full year, as included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8, to the respective amounts in our same store portfolio analysis. Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full Year 2011 Rental income $ 199,129 $ 285,339 $ 449,787 $ 442,581 $ 1,376,836 Rental expenses 61,875 79,261 125,216 118,300 384,652 Net operating income $ 137,254 $ 206,078 $ 324,571 $ 324,281 $ 992,184 2010 Rental income $ 181,526 $ 182,116 $ 188,347 $ 192,551 $ 744,540 Rental expenses 54,503 52,321 55,254 53,130 215,208 Net operating income $ 127,023 $ 129,795 $ 133,093 $ 139,421 $ 529,332 33 Table of Contents For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 2010 PercentageChange Rental Income (1)(2) Consolidated: Rental income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 442,581 $ 192,551 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (28,913) (9,157) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (235) 918 Unconsolidated investees: Rental income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 377,646 330,928 Rental income of AMB properties pre Merger 269,106 Same store portfolio rental income (2)(3) $ 791,079 $ 784,346 0.9% Rental Expenses (1)(4) Consolidated: Rental expenses per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 118,300 $ 53,130 Adjustments to derive same store results: Rental expenses of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (16,663) (6,328) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other 7,410 5,496 Unconsolidated investees: Rental expenses of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 100,814 79,677 Rental expense of AMB properties pre Merger 73,734 Adjusted same store portfolio rental expenses (3)(4) $ 209,861 $ 205,709 2.0% Net Operating Income (1) Consolidated: Net operating income per our Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 324,281 $ 139,421 Adjustments to derive same store results: Net operating income of properties not in the same store portfolio properties developed and acquired during the period and land subject to ground leases (12,250) (2,829) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other (7,645) (4,578) Unconsolidated investees: Net operating income of properties managed by us and owned by our unconsolidated investees 276,832 251,251 Net operating income of AMB properties pre Merger 195,372 Adjusted same store portfolio net operating income (3) $ 581,218 $ 578,637 0.4% (1) As discussed above, our same store portfolio includes industrial properties from our consolidated portfolio and owned by the unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) that are managed by us. In addition, we have included the properties owned and managed by AMB as of January 1, 2010 that we still own at December 31, 2011 in the same store portfolio. During the periods presented, certain properties owned by us were contributed to an unconsolidated investee and are included in the same store portfolio on an aggregate basis. Neither our consolidated results nor that of the unconsolidated investees, when viewed individually, would be comparable on a same store basis due to the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to period (for example, the results of a contributed property would be included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the results of the unconsolidated investee subsequent to the contribution date). (2) We exclude the net termination and renegotiation fees from our same store rental income to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each propertys rental income without regard to items that are not indicative of the propertys recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, offset by the write off of the asset recognized due to the adjustment to straight line rents over the lease term. The adjustments to remove these items are included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the tables above. 34 Table of Contents (3) These amounts include rental income, rental expenses and net operating income of both our consolidated industrial properties and those owned by our unconsolidated investees (accounted for on the equity method) and managed by us. (4) Rental expenses in the same store portfolio include the direct operating expenses of the property such as property taxes, insurance, utilities, etc. In addition, we include an allocation of the property management expenses for our direct owned properties based on the property management fee that is provided for in the individual management agreements under which our wholly owned management companies provide property management services to each property (generally, the fee is based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, the management fee income earned by the management companies and the management fee expense recognized by the properties are eliminated and the actual costs of providing property management services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expenses. These expenses fluctuate based on the level of properties included in the same store portfolio and any adjustment is included as effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other in the above table. Environmental Matters A majority of the properties acquired by us were subjected to environmental reviews either by us or the previous owners. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We record a liability for the estimated costs of environmental remediation to be incurred in connection with certain operating properties we acquire, as well as certain land parcels we acquire in connection with the planned development of the land. The liability is established to cover the environmental remediation costs, including cleanup costs, consulting fees for studies and investigations, monitoring costs and legal costs relating to cleanup, litigation defense, and the pursuit of responsible third parties. We purchase various environmental insurance policies to mitigate our exposure to environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, dispositions of properties and from available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition, operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements. Near Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses In addition to dividends to the common and preferred stockholders of the REIT and distributions to the limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, we expect our primary cash needs will consist of the following: completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (a); investments in current or future unconsolidated investees, primarily for the development and or acquisition of properties depending on market and other conditions (b); development of new properties for long term investment; repayment of debt, including payments on our credit facilities and repurchases of senior notes and or exchangeable senior notes; scheduled consolidated debt principal payments in 2012 of $1.2 billion; capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties; depending on market and other conditions, acquisition of operating properties and or portfolios of operating properties in global or regional markets for direct, long term investment (this might include acquisitions from our co investment ventures); and merger integration and transition expenses. (a) As of December 31, 2011, we had 30 properties in our development portfolio that were 49.8% leased with a current investment of $860.5 million and a total expected investment of $1.2 billion when completed and leased, leaving $306.4 million remaining to be spent. (b) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for discussion of the capital commitments of certain co investment ventures. We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources, all subject to market conditions: available unrestricted cash balances ($176.1 million at December 31, 2011); property operations; 35 Table of Contents fees and incentives earned for services performed on behalf of the co investment ventures and distributions received from the co investment ventures; proceeds from the disposition of properties, land parcels or other investments to third parties; proceeds from the contributions or sales of properties to co investment ventures; borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements discussed below ($1.2 billion available as of December 31, 2011), other facilities or borrowing arrangements; proceeds from the issuance of equity securities; and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities, including secured mortgage debt. We may repurchase our outstanding debt securities through cash purchases, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. Such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Debt In 2012 we have scheduled debt maturities of $1.2 billion, including $361 million of our consolidated but not wholly owned entities. We expect to pay these maturities with proceeds from the disposition of properties and available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. These covenants include customary financial covenants for total debt ratios, encumbered debt ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Credit Facilities On June 3, 2011, we entered into a global senior credit facility (Global Facility), pursuant to which the Operating Partnership and certain subsidiaries and affiliates may obtain loans and or procure the issuance of letters of credit in various currencies on a revolving basis in an aggregate amount. The loans cannot exceed $1.71 billion (subject to currency fluctuations) and may be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars and British pounds. We may increase availability under the Global Facility to $2.75 billion, subject to currency fluctuations and obtaining additional lender commitments. The Global Facility is scheduled to mature on June 3, 2015, but the Operating Partnership may, at its option and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date of the Global Facility to June 3, 2016. Pricing under the Global Facility, including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies based upon the public debt ratings of the Operating Partnership. The Global Facility contains customary representations, covenants and defaults (including a cross acceleration to other recourse indebtedness of more than $50 million). In addition, on June 3, 2011, we entered into a Yen revolver (the Revolver), which has a total borrowing capacity of &yen;36.5 billion (approximately $471.3 million at December 31, 2011). The Revolver matures on March 1, 2014, but we may, at our option and subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions and payment of an extension fee, extend the maturity date to February 27, 2015. We may increase availability under the Revolver to an amount not exceeding &yen;56.5 billion (approximately $729.6 million at December 31, 2011), subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. Pricing under the Revolver is consistent with the Global Facility pricing. The Revolver contains certain customary representations, covenants and defaults that are substantially the same as the corresponding provisions of the Global Facility. We refer to the Global Facility and Revolver collectively as Credit Facilities. Information related to our Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2011 is as follows (dollars in millions): Aggregate lender commitments $ 2,184.6 Less: Borrowings outstanding (934.9) Outstanding letters of credit (85.0) Current availability $ 1,164.7 On February 2, 2012, we entered into a senior term loan agreement where we may obtain loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed 487.5 million (approximately $634 million). The loans can be obtained in U.S. dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and British pounds sterling. We may increase the borrowings to approximately 987.5 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. The loan agreement is scheduled to mature on February 2, 2014, but we may extend the maturity date three times, in each case up to one year, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee. We used the proceeds from this senior term loan to pay off the two outstanding term loans assumed in connection with the Merger and the remainder to pay down borrowings on the Credit Facilities. 36 Table of Contents Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co Investment Ventures Certain co investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. We may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. Our venture partners fulfill their equity commitment with cash. We are committed to offer to contribute certain properties that we develop and stabilize in select markets in Europe and Mexico to certain co investment ventures. These ventures are committed to acquire such properties, subject to certain exceptions, including that the properties meet certain specified leasing and other criteria, and that the ventures have available capital. Generally the venture obtains financing for the properties and therefore the equity commitment is less than the acquisition price of the real estate. We are not obligated to contribute properties at a loss. Depending on market conditions, the investment objectives of the ventures, our liquidity needs and other factors, we may make contributions of properties to these ventures through the remaining commitment period. The following table is a summary of remaining equity commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in millions): Equity commitments Expiration date for remainingcommitments Prologis SGP Mexico (1) Prologis $ 24.6 (1 ) Venture Partner $ 98.1 Prologis Europe Logistics Venture 1 (2) Prologis $ 79.5 February 2014 Venture Partner $ 450.9 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 Prologis $ 71.0 March 2015 Venture Partner $ 402.1 Total Unconsolidated Prologis $ 175.1 Venture Partners $ 951.1 Prologis Brazil Logistics Partners Fund Prologis $ 149.2 December 2013 Venture Partner $ 149.2 Total Consolidated Prologis $ 149.2 Venture Partners $ 149.2 Grand Total Prologis $ 324.3 Venture Partners $ 1,100.3 (1) These equity commitments will be called only to pay outstanding debt of the venture. The debt is due in the third quarter of 2012, with an option to extend until the third quarter of 2013. (2) Equity commitments are denominated in euro and reported above in U.S. dollars. In addition to the co investment ventures listed above, we obtained additional equity commitments of 82 million (approximately $110.3 million) from our partners in October 2011 in an unconsolidated co investment venture, Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund. This equity was called in October 2011 to cover the acquisition of properties from us. One of our unconsolidated co investment ventures, Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund, used its remaining equity commitments in the fourth quarter of 2011 to cover the acquisition of 40 properties from us. For more information on our investments in unconsolidated co investment ventures, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $207.1 million, $240.8 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash provided by operating activities was less than the cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests by $224.4 million, $66.9 million and $209.7 million, respectively. We used proceeds from the disposition of real estate properties ($1.6 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009) to fund dividends on common and preferred shares and distributions to noncontrolling interests not covered by cash flows from operating activities. 37 Table of Contents Cash Investing and Cash Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, investing activities used net cash of $233.1 million and provided net cash of $733.3 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: We generated cash from contributions and dispositions of properties and land parcels of $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we contributed and disposed of land, land subject to ground leases and 169 properties that included the majority of our non core assets. In 2010 and 2009, we disposed of land and 214 and 183 properties, respectively. We invested $1.2 billion, $543.9 million and $1.3 billion in real estate during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; including costs for current and future development projects and recurring capital expenditures and tenant improvements on existing operating properties. In 2011, we acquired eight properties with an aggregate purchase price of $86.5 million. In connection with the Merger, we acquired $234.0 million in cash in 2011. During the second quarter 2011, we used $1.0 billion of cash to purchase units in PEPR (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). The acquisition was funded with borrowings on a new 500 million bridge facility (PEPR Bridge Facility) that was put in place for the acquisition and borrowings under our credit facilities. The borrowings on the PEPR Bridge Facility were repaid with proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering. We invested cash of $37.8 million, $335.4 million and $401.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in unconsolidated investees including investments in connection with property contributions we made, net of repayment of advances by the investees. We received distributions from unconsolidated investees as a return of investment and proceeds from the sale of our investments of $170.2 million, $220.2 million and $81.2 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we received $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our China operations and our property fund interests in Japan. The proceeds were used to pay down borrowings on our Credit Facilities. We generated net cash proceeds from payments on notes receivable of $6.5 million, $18.4 million and $12.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the first quarter of 2011, we invested $55.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of the buyer of a portfolio of non core assets. In 2010, we invested $188.0 million in a preferred equity interest in a subsidiary of a buyer of a portfolio of assets and we purchased an $81.0 million loan to ProLogis North American Industrial Fund II from the lender. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, financing activities provided net cash of $163.3 million and used net cash of $969.8 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. The following are the significant activities for all periods presented: In 2011, we repurchased and extinguished $894.5 million of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes and secured mortgage debt for a total of $894.2 million. In 2010, we repurchased and extinguished $3.0 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $3.1 billion. In 2009, we repurchased and extinguished $1.5 billion of the original principal amount of our senior notes, exchangeable senior notes, and secured mortgage debt for $1.2 billion. In 2011, we incurred $577.9 million in secured mortgage debt and borrowed $721.0 million on the PEPR Bridge Facility. In 2010, we issued $1.1 billion of senior notes due 2017 and 2020 and $460.0 million of exchangeable senior notes due 2015. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our Credit Facilities. We also incurred $300.3 million in secured mortgage debt. In 2009, we issued $950.0 million of senior notes and $498.9 million of secured mortgage debt. We had net payments on our credit facilities of $37.6 million, $246.3 million and $2.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In connection with the Merger, we repaid the outstanding balance under our existing global line of credit and entered into new Credit Facilities. In 2011, we used $711.8 million in proceeds from the 2011 Equity Offering to repay the amounts borrowed under the PEPR Bridge Facility. In addition, we made net payments of $263.7 million, $257.5 million and $351.8 million on regularly scheduled debt principal and maturity payments during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This includes the repayment of 101.3 million ($146.8 million) of the euro notes that matured in April 2011. In June 2011, we completed the 2011 Equity Offering and issued 34.5 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. In November of 2010, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 41.1 million common shares. In April 2009, we received net proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of 78.0 million common shares. We generated proceeds from the sale and issuance of common stock under our various common share plans of $30.8 million and $337.4 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily from our at the market equity issuance program. We had minimal activity in 2011. The at the market equity program was terminated in connection with the Merger. 38 Table of Contents We paid distributions of $387.1 million, $280.7 million and $271.8 million to our common stockholders during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We paid dividends on our preferred stock of $27.0 million, $25.4 million and $25.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, we received proceeds of $123.9 million from our noncontrolling interest partners, primarily for the purchase of real estate properties by our consolidated co investment venture, Mexico Fondo Logistico. In addition, we distributed $17.4 million to noncontrolling interests in 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Unconsolidated Co Investment Ventures Debt We had investments in and advances to certain unconsolidated co investment ventures at December 31, 2011 of $2.4 billion. These unconsolidated ventures had total third party debt of $9.3 billion (in the aggregate, not our proportionate share) at December 31, 2011 that matures as follows (in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Discount/ Premium Total (1) Prologis California LLC $ $ $ 137.5 $ $ 52.5 $ 120.0 $ $ 310.0 Prologis North American Properties Fund I 108.7 108.7 Prologis North American Properties Fund XI 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund 52.0 80.0 108.7 444.0 559.5 1,244.2 Prologis North American Industrial Fund II (2) 159.6 75.3 476.1 74.8 136.5 325.7 (4.7) 1,243.3 Prologis North American IndustrialFund III (3) 203.5 385.6 146.4 280.0 (1.4) 1,014.1 Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund 42.6 188.8 102.5 280.7 158.6 810.0 15.2 1,598.4 Prologis Mexico Industrial Fund 214.1 214.1 Prologis SGP Mexico (4) 62.4 3.7 3.9 4.1 144.8 218.9 Prologis European Properties Fund II (5) 13.6 485.4 223.5 462.3 229.8 209.3 1,623.9 Prologis Targeted Europe Logistics Fund 9.3 9.4 388.7 226.9 2.3 2.4 12.8 651.8 Prologis Japan Fund 1 (6) 218.5 529.5 1.8 120.7 81.5 9.4 961.4 Prologis China Logistics Venture 1 100.0 100.0 Total property funds $ 870.9 $ 1,758.1 $ 1,478.6 $ 1,159.3 $ 1,389.2 $ 2,602.5 $ 31.4 $ 9,290.0 (1) As of December 31, 2011, we had guaranteed $6.9 million of the third party debt of the co investment ventures. In our role as the manager, we work with the co investment ventures to refinance their maturing debt. There can be no assurance that the co investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of the ventures also have credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds. Generally, the co investment ventures issue long term debt and utilize the proceeds to repay borrowings under the credit facilities. (2) In February 2012, we bought out our partner and own 100% of this venture and will begin consolidating. In connection with this transaction, we repaid the loan this venture had to our partner of $334.6 million. We had a note receivable from this fund of $78.9 million that will now eliminate in consolidation. (3) We have a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $21.4 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. In February 2012, this loan payable to us and loans from Prologis North American Industrial Fund III payable to our partner were restructured into equity according to our ownership percentages. This resulted in additional equity to us of approximately $25 million. (4) Through the Merger we acquired a note receivable from this venture. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 was $19.8 million and is not included in the maturities above as it is not third party debt. This venture has capital commitments from us and our partner that we expect to be used to repay this debt maturing in 2012. (5) PEPF II has a 150 million ($196.1 million) credit facility. The facility is denominated in euro and pound sterling. (6) The debt included in 2012 maturities is due October 2012. The co investment venture expects to re finance the debt in the first half of 2012. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Long Term Contractual Obligations We had long term contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 as follows (in millions): Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than5 years Debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities $ 10,387 $ 1,220 $ 3,272 $ 2,130 $ 3,765 Interest on debt obligations, other than Credit Facilities 2,506 532 862 585 527 Unfunded commitments on the development portfolio (1) 306 306 Operating lease payments 331 26 44 33 228 Amounts due on Credit Facilities 935 291 644 Interest on Credit Facilities 70 16 47 7 Totals $ 14,535 $ 2,100 $ 4,516 $ 3,399 $ 4,520 (1) We had properties in our development portfolio (completed and under development) at December 31, 2011 with a total expected investment of $1.2 billion. The unfunded commitments presented include not only those costs that we are obligated to fund under construction contracts, but all costs necessary to place the property into service, including the estimated costs of tenant improvements, marketing and leasing costs which we will incur as the property is leased. Other Commitments On a continuing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition and or disposition of individual properties or portfolios of properties. Distribution and Dividend Requirements Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure we will meet the dividend requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to meet other needs such as capital improvements and other investment activities. Prior to the Merger, ProLogis paid a cash distribution of $0.25 (adjusted by Merger exchange ratio) per common share for the first quarter on February 28, 2011 and for the second quarter on May 25, 2011. Also prior to the Merger, AMB paid a dividend of $0.28 per common share on February 28, 2011 for the first quarter and on May 25, 2011 for the second quarter. Neither AMB dividend has been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 since ProLogis is the accounting acquirer, as discussed earlier. We paid a cash dividend of $0.28 per common share for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2011. A cash distribution of $0.28 for the first quarter of 2012 was declared on February 22, 2012. This distribution will be paid on March 30, 2012 to holders of common shares on March 12, 2012. Our future common stock dividends may vary and will be determined by our Board upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. At December 31, 2011, we had seven series of preferred stock outstanding. The annual dividend rates on preferred stock are 6.5% per Series L share, 6.75% per Series M share, 7.0% per Series O share, 6.85% per Series P share, 8.54% per Series Q share, 6.75% per Series R share and 6.75% per Series S share. The Series Q, R and S were preferred shares of beneficial interest in ProLogis prior to the Merger and distributions on those shares have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 through December 31, 2011. The dividends on the remaining preferred stock have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the Merger. The dividends on preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock has been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. Critical Accounting Policies A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of an entitys financial condition and results of operations and requires judgment on the part of management. Generally, the judgment requires management to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are prepared using managements best judgment, after considering past and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. The current economic environment has increased the degree of uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, those presented below have been identified by us as critical accounting policies. 40 Table of Contents Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We assess the carrying values of our respective long lived assets, including goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we consider current market conditions, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Our intent with regard to the underlying assets might change as market conditions change, as well as other factors, especially in the current global economic environment. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques; including discounted cash flow models, applying a capitalization rate to estimated net operating income of a property, quoted market values and third party appraisals, where considered necessary. The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the real estate property. We use a two step approach to our goodwill impairment evaluation. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify whether there is any potential impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its corresponding book value, including goodwill, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed. The second step requires that we compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Assumptions and estimates used in the recoverability analyses for future cash flows, discount rates and capitalization rates are complex and subjective. Changes in economic and operating conditions or our intent with regard to our investment that occurs subsequent to our impairment analyses could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment of our real estate properties and or goodwill. Other than Temporary Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Investees When circumstances indicate there may have been a reduction in the value of an equity investment, we evaluate whether the loss in value is other than temporary. If we determine there is a loss in value that is other than temporary, we recognize an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. The use of projected future cash flows and other estimates of fair value, the determination of when a loss is other than temporary, and the calculation of the amount of the loss, is complex and subjective. Use of other estimates and assumptions may result in different conclusions. Changes in economic and operating conditions, as well as changes in our intent with regard to our investment, that occur subsequent to our review could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment charges of our equity investments. Revenue Recognition Gains on Disposition of Real Estate We recognize gains from the contributions and sales of real estate assets, generally at the time the title is transferred, consideration is received and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. In many of our transactions, an entity in which we have an ownership interest will acquire a real estate asset from us. We make judgments based on the specific terms of each transaction as to the amount of the total profit from the transaction that we recognize given our continuing ownership interest and our level of future involvement with the investee that acquires the assets. We also make judgments regarding recognition in earnings of certain fees and incentives based on when they are earned, fixed and determinable. Business Combinations We acquire individual properties, as well as portfolios of properties, or businesses. When we acquire a business or individual operating properties, with the intention to hold the investment for the long term, we allocate the purchase price to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The components typically include land, building, debt, intangible assets related to above and below market leases, value of costs to obtain tenants, deferred tax liabilities and other assumed assets and liabilities in the case of an acquisition of a business. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value and often times is based upon the expected future cash flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located. The fair value may also include an enterprise value premium that we estimate a third party would be willing to pay for a portfolio of properties. The initial allocation of the purchase price is based on managements preliminary assessment, which may differ when final information becomes available. Subsequent adjustments made to the initial purchase price allocation are made within the allocation period, which typically does not exceed one year. Consolidation We consolidate all entities that are wholly owned and those in which we own less than 100% but control, as well as any variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. We evaluate our ability to control an entity and whether the entity is a variable interest entity and we are the primary beneficiary through consideration of the substantive terms of the arrangement to identify which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impacts the entitys economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Investments in entities in which we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are presented under the equity method. Investments in entities that we do not control and over which we do not exercise significant influence are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, as appropriate. Our ability to correctly assess our influence and or control over an entity affects the presentation of these investments in our consolidated financial statements. 41 Table of Contents Capitalization of Costs and Depreciation We capitalize costs incurred in developing, renovating, rehabilitating, and improving real estate assets as part of the investment basis. Costs incurred in making repairs and maintaining real estate assets are expensed as incurred. During the land development and construction periods, we capitalize interest costs, insurance, real estate taxes and certain general and administrative costs of the personnel performing development, renovations, and rehabilitation if such costs are incremental and identifiable to a specific activity to get the asset ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of real estate assets. We also capitalize costs incurred to successfully originate a lease that result directly from, and are essential to, the acquisition of that lease. Leasing costs that meet the requirements for capitalization are presented as a component of other assets. We estimate the depreciable portion of our real estate assets and related useful lives in order to record depreciation expense. Our ability to estimate the depreciable portions of our real estate assets and useful lives is critical to the determination of the appropriate amount of depreciation expense recorded and the carrying value of the underlying assets. Any change to the assets to be depreciated and the estimated depreciable lives of these assets would have an impact on the depreciation expense recognized. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income tax liability, the liability associated with open tax years that are under review and our compliance with REIT requirements. Our estimates are based on interpretation of tax laws. We estimate our actual current income tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for book and tax purposes resulting in the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. These estimates may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in assessments of the recognition of income tax benefits for certain non routine transactions, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, our inability to qualify as a REIT, the potential for built in gain recognition, changes in the assessment of properties to be contributed to taxable REIT subsidiaries and changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included within income tax expense. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Funds from Operations (FFO) FFO is a non GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) has published a definition of FFO, which was amended in late 2011, further modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business. FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance. NAREITs FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation, gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated properties. We agree that these NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons: historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP assumes, through depreciation charges, that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. NAREIT stated in its White Paper on FFO since real estate asset values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Consequently, NAREITs definition of FFO reflects the fact that real estate, as an asset class, generally appreciates over time and depreciation charges required by GAAP do not reflect the underlying economic realities. REITs were created as a legal form of organization in order to encourage public ownership of real estate as an asset class through investment in firms that were in the business of long term ownership and management of real estate. The exclusion, in NAREITs definition of FFO, of gains and losses from the sales of, and impairment charges of, previously depreciated operating real estate assets allows investors and analysts to readily identify the operating results of the long term assets that form the core of a REITs activity and assists in comparing those operating results between periods. We include the gains and losses from dispositions of land and development properties in FFO. As a result, if we recognize impairment charges related to these types of properties, we also include the impairment charges in the calculation of FFO as defined by NAREIT. We exclude from FFO as defined by NAREIT gains and losses from dispositions of properties, other than land and development properties, which we refer to as Non FFO properties, as well as any related impairment charges. We include or exclude our share of these items recognized by our unconsolidated investees on the same basis. 42 Table of Contents Our FFO Measures At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community. We believe stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. We use these FFO measures, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties. The long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating our FFO measures are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long term outlook. We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs. FFO, as defined by Prologis: To arrive at FFO, as defined by Prologis, we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude: (i) deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries; (ii) current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the extent the expense is offset with a deferred income tax benefit in GAAP earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; (iii) foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from debt transactions between us and our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; (iv) foreign currency exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement (based on current foreign currency exchange rates) of certain third party debt of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign unconsolidated investees; and (v) mark to market adjustments associated with derivative financial instruments. We calculate FFO, as defined by Prologis for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our FFO, as defined by Prologis. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Core FFO In addition to FFO, as defined by Prologis, we also use Core FFO. To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as defined by Prologis, to exclude the following recurring and non recurring items that we recognized directly or our share recognized by our unconsolidated investees to the extent they are included in FFO, as defined by Prologis: (i) gains or losses from acquisition, contribution or sale of land or development properties; (ii) income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate; (iii) impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate (either directly or through our investments in unconsolidated investees) generally as a result of our change in intent to contribute or sell these properties; (iv) impairment charges of goodwill and other assets; (v) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; (vi) merger, acquisition and other integration expenses; and (vii) expenses related to natural disasters We believe it is appropriate to further adjust our FFO, as defined by Prologis for certain recurring items as they were driven by transactional activity and factors relating to the financial and real estate markets, rather than factors specific to the on going operating performance of our properties or investments. The impairment charges we recognized were primarily based on valuations of real estate, which had declined due to market conditions, that we no longer expected to hold for long term investment. We currently have and have had over the past several years a stated priority to strengthen our financial position. We expect to accomplish this by reducing our debt, our investment in certain low yielding assets, such as land that we decide not to develop and our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. As a result, we have sold to third parties or contributed to unconsolidated investees real estate properties that, depending on market conditions, might result in a gain or loss. The impairment charges related to goodwill and other assets that we have recognized were similarly caused by the decline in the real 43 Table of Contents estate markets. Also in connection with our stated priority to reduce debt and extend debt maturities, we have purchased portions of our debt securities. As a result, we recognized net gains or losses on the early extinguishment of certain debt due to the financial market conditions at that time. We have also adjusted for some non recurring items. The merger, acquisition and other integration expenses include costs we incurred in 2011 and that we expect to incur in 2012 associated with the Merger and PEPR Acquisition and the integration of our systems and processes. We have not adjusted for the acquisition costs that we have incurred as a result of routine acquisitions but only the costs associated with significant business combinations that we would expect to be infrequent in nature. Similarly, the expenses related to the natural disaster in Japan that we recognized in 2011 are a rare occurrence but we may incur similar expenses again in the future. We analyze our operating performance primarily by the rental income of our real estate and the revenue driven by our private capital business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities. As a result, although these items have had a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal of the effects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. We use Core FFO, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; (v) assess our operating performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (vi) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long term performance of the properties we own. As noted above, we believe the long term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy. Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREITs nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, they are only part of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are: The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures represent the taxes that are payable. Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Further, the amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of industrial properties are not reflected in FFO. Gains or losses from property acquisitions and dispositions or impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent changes in the value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, our FFO measures do not capture realized changes in the value of acquired or disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions. The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures result from the creation of a deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our defined FFO measures do not currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our defined FFO measures are generally recognized based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign currency denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements. The impairment charges of goodwill and other assets that we exclude from Core FFO, have been or may be realized as a loss in the future upon the ultimate disposition of the related investments or other assets through the form of lower cash proceeds. The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or cost to us as we may be settling our debt at less or more than our future obligation. The Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses and the natural disaster expenses that we exclude from Core FFO are costs that we have incurred. We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP. 44 Table of Contents FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares was $411.7 million, a negative $974.2 million and $185.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Core FFO attributable to common shares as defined by us was $593.9 million, $237.4 million and $416.7 million for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in Core FFO is primarily due to the Merger and PEPR Acquisition, both of which substantially increased our investments in real estate properties directly and through our unconsolidated investments as discussed earlier. The reconciliations of Core FFO and FFO, as defined by Prologis, attributable to common shares to net earnings attributable to common shares computed under GAAP are as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 FFO: Reconciliation of net loss to FFO measures: Net loss attributable to common shares $ (188,110) $ (1,295,920) $ (2,650) Add (deduct) NAREIT defined adjustments: Real estate related depreciation and amortization 566,328 295,182 248,267 Impairment of non FFO operating properties 5,300 126,987 46,624 Net gains on dispositions of non FFO operating properties (39,812) (196,080) (168,177) Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests (19,889) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees 147,608 141,721 132,971 Subtotal NAREIT defined FFO 471,425 (928,110) 257,035 Add (deduct) our defined adjustments: Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net (39,034) 11,487 (58,128) Deferred income tax expense (benefit) (19,803) (52,223) (19,641) Our share of reconciling items from unconsolidated investees (900) (5,351) 6,243 FFO, as defined by Prologis 411,688 (974,197) 185,509 Impairment charges 145,028 1,110,072 448,612 Natural disaster expenses 5,210 Merger, acquisition and other integration expenses 140,495 Our share of losses (gains) on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate, net (115,577) (110,786) (65,587) Losses (gains) on early extinguishment of debt (258) 201,486 (172,258) Income tax expense on dispositions 7,331 10,783 20,466 Core FFO $ 593,917 $ 237,358 $ 416,742 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. We have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. We have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. The sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer term debt issuances. At December 31, 2011, we have &yen;61.1 billion ($788.4 million) in TMK bond agreements and a &yen;12.5 billion ($161.3 million) term loan with variable interest rates. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on &yen;21.8 billion ($281.2 million as of December 31, 2011) of the TMK bonds and the entire term loan for the term of the agreements. At December 31, 2011, we have also entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on 771.6 million ($1.0 billion) of secured debt, of which 743.6 million ($972.2 million) relates to PEPR, with variable interest rates. In 2011, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $870.9 million on our variable rate Credit Facilities. Based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, which assumed a 10% adverse change in interest rates, the estimated market risk exposure for the variable rate lines of credit was approximately $1.8 million of cash flow in 2011. 45 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars, principally euro, British pound sterling and yen. To mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. We also may use foreign currency put option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated investees. At December 31, 2011, we had no put option contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. At December 31, 2011, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
