FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20041228140950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)           
December 22, 2004
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code     
(412) 553-5700
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
ITEM 1.01.        ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. ("EQT") has approved the following: (i) the adoption of the Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2005 Employee Plan"), and (ii) the adoption of the Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2005 Directors' Plan").  Each of the 2005 Employee Plan and the 2005 Directors' Plan is effective January 1, 2005.
 
2005 Employee Plan
 
EQT has adopted the 2005 Employee Plan.  The 2005 Employee Plan will provide eligible employees of EQT the right to defer all or a portion of their annual compensation, bonus and other income.  Amounts are generally deferred until separation from service, death or disability.  A copy of the 2005 Employee Plan is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
2005 Directors' Plan
 
EQT has adopted the 2005 Directors' Plan.  The 2005 Directors' Plan allows members of the Board of Directors of EQT to defer all or a portion of the fees otherwise payable to them for service on the Board of Directors.  Amounts are generally deferred until separation from service.  A copy of the 2005 Directors' Plan is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
ITEM 1.02.        TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
 
(filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K of EQT filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 1, 2004), and (ii) the suspension of the Equitable Resources, Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Directors' Plan") (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-Q of EQT filed with the SEC on August 14, 2003).
EQT has approved the following: (i) the suspension of the Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Employee Plan")
As a result of the upcoming effectiveness of new deferred compensation requirements included within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,
 
Employee Plan
 
The Employee Plan will be suspended as of December 31, 2004.  After December 31, 2004, the Employee Plan will, however, continue to operate for the sole purpose of administering vested amounts deferred under the plan on or prior to December 31, 2004.
 
Directors' Plan
 
The Directors' Plan will be suspended as of December 31, 2004.  After December 31, 2004, the Directors' Plan will, however, continue to operate for the sole purpose of administering vested amounts deferred under the plan on or prior to December 31, 2004.
ITEM 9.01.        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
10.1         Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Employee Deferred Compensation Plan
10.2         Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1.1
                              
Statement of Purpose
 
This is the Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2005 Plan") made in the form of this 2005 Plan and in related agreements between the Employer and certain management or highly compensated employees.  The purpose of the 2005 Plan is to provide management and highly compensated employees of the Employer with the option to defer the receipt of portions of their compensation payable for services rendered to the Employer.  It is intended that the 2005 Plan will assist in attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve as officers and managers of the Employer.
 
When used in this 2005 Plan and initially capitalized, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
 
2.1
                              
Account.
 
"Account" means the sum of a Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account.
 
2.2
                              
Base Salary.
 
"Base Salary" means a Participant's base earnings paid by the Employer to a Participant without regard to any increases or decreases in base earnings as a result of an election to defer base earnings under this 2005 Plan or an election between benefits or cash provided under a plan of an Employer maintained pursuant to Section 125 or 401(k) of the Code, and as limited in Exhibit B attached hereto.
 
2.3
                              
Beneficiary.
 
"Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated or deemed to be designated by the Participant pursuant to Article VII to receive benefits payable under the 2005 Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
 
2.4
                              
Board.
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
2.5
                              
Bonus.
 
"Bonus" means a Participant's bonus or sales commission paid by the Employer to a Participant under the plans listed in Exhibit B attached hereto and to the degree limited in Exhibit B, as applicable, without regard to any decreases as a result of an election to defer all or any portion of a bonus under this 2005 Plan or an election between benefits or cash provided under a plan of the Employer maintained pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Code.
 
2.6
                              
Change in Control.
 
"Change in Control" means any of the following events:
 
The sale or other disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to a single purchaser or to a group of purchasers, other than to a corporation with respect to which, following such sale or disposition, more than eighty percent (80%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors is then owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the outstanding Company common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the outstanding Company common stock and voting power immediately prior to such sale or disposition.
(a)
                                 
 
The acquisition in one or more transactions by any person or group, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the
(b)
                                
outstanding shares of Company common stock or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board; provided, however, that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (y) any person that is eligible, pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b) under the Exchange Act (as such rule is in effect as of February 25, 2004) to file a statement on Schedule 13G with respect to its beneficial ownership of Company common stock and other voting securities whether or not such person shall have filed a statement on Schedule 13G, unless such person shall have filed a statement on Schedule 13D with respect to beneficial ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Company's voting securities, shall not constitute a Change of Control;
 
The Company's termination of its business and liquidation of its assets;
(c)
                                 
 
The reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company into or with another person or entity, by which reorganization, merger or consolidation the persons who hold one hundred percent (100%) of the voting securities of the Company prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation receive or continue to hold less than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding voting shares of the new or continuing corporation; or
(d)
                                
 
If, during any two-year period, less than a majority of the members of the Board are persons who were either (i) nominated or recommended for election by at least two-thirds vote of the persons who were members of the Board or nominated by the Board at the beginning of the period, or (ii) elected by at least two-thirds vote of the persons who were members of the Board at the beginning of the period.
(e)
                                 
 
2.7
                              
Code.
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
2.8
                              
Committee.
 
"Committee" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
 
2.9
                              
Company.
 
"Company" means Equitable Resources, Inc. and any successor thereto.
 
2.10
                       
Compensation.
 
"Compensation" means the Base Salary and Bonus payable with respect to an Eligible Employee for each Plan Year.
 
2.11
                       
Credited Service.
 
"Credited Service" means the sum of all periods of a Participant's employment by the Company or a Selected Affiliate for which service credit is given under the Equitable Resources Pension Plan, as then in effect.
 
2.12
                       
Deferral Account.
 
"Deferral Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the amount of Compensation and Other Income that each Participant elects or is required to defer under the 2005 Plan and for the amount of investment return credited thereto for each Participant pursuant to Article V.
2.13
                       
Deferral Amount.
 
"Deferral Amount" means the Regular Deferral Amounts, Elective Deferral Amounts and Required Deferral Amounts deferred by a Participant under Section 4.1.
 
2.14
                       
Deferral Benefit.
 
"Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to Article VI.
 
2.15
                       
Deferral Election.
 
"Deferral Election" means the written election made by a Participant to defer Compensation or Other Income pursuant to Article IV.  "Regular Deferral Election" shall mean the written election made by a Participant to defer Compensation pursuant to Section 4.1(a).  "Other Income Deferral Election" shall mean the written election made by a Participant to defer Other Income pursuant to Section 4.1(b).
 
2.16
                       
Disability.
 
"Disability" means a Participant is "disabled" as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.
 
2.17
                       
Early Retirement.
 
"Early Retirement" will be granted by the Committee at its sole discretion.
 
2.18
                       
Eligible Employee.
 
"Eligible Employee" means a highly compensated or management employee of the Employer who is designated by the Committee, by name or group or description, in accordance with Section 3.1, as eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan.
 
2.19
                       
Elective Deferral Amount.
 
"Elective Deferral Amount" means the amount of Other Income deferred by a Participant under Section 4.1(b).
 
2.20
                       
Employer.
 
"Employer" means, with respect to a Participant, the Company or the Selected Affiliate which pays such Participant's Compensation.
 
2.21
                       
Hardship Withdrawal.
 
"Hardship Withdrawal" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.
 
2.22
                       
Investment Return Rate.
 
"Investment Return Rate" means:
 
In the case of an investment named in Exhibit C of a fixed income nature, the interest deemed to be credited as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to the same investment option provided under the Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings Plan, originally adopted September 1, 1985, as amended ("Equitable 401(k) Plan");
(a)
                                 
In the case of an investment named in Exhibit C of an equity investment nature, the increase or decrease in deemed value and dividends deemed to be credited as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to the same investment option provided under the Equitable 401(k) Plan; or
(b)
                                
 
In the case of the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund, the increase or decrease in the deemed value, and the reinvestment in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund of any dividends deemed to be credited, as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to investments in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.
(c)
                                 
 
2.23
                       
Matching Account.
 
"Matching Account" means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the Matching Amount and for the amount of investment return credited thereto for each Participant pursuant to Article V.
 
2.24
                       
Matching Amount.
 
"Matching Amount" means the Matching Amounts credited to a Participant's Matching Account under Section 4.2.
 
2.25
                       
Other Income.
 
"Other Income" means cash awards, excluding Compensation, paid by the Employer to a Participant and awards of restricted stock to a Participant pursuant to another plan of the Company.
 
2.26
                       
Participant.
 
"Participant" means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement or who is automatically enrolled with respect to a Required Deferral.
 
2.27
                       
Participation Agreement.
 
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement filed by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, pursuant to Section 3.2.
 
2.28
                       
2005 Plan.
 
"2005 Plan" means the Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.
 
2.29
                       
2005 Plan Year.
 
"2005 Plan Year" means the twelve-month period commencing January 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005.
 
2.30
                       
Regular Deferral Amount.
 
"Regular Deferral Amount" means the amount of Compensation deferred by a Participant under Section 4.1(a).
2.31
                       
Required Deferral Amount.
 
"Required Deferral Amount" means the amount, other than Compensation, automatically credited to a Participant's Deferral Account pursuant to the terms of a special benefit or bonus plan (other than a plan listed on Exhibit B).
 
2.32
                       
Retirement.
 
"Retirement" means the termination of a Participant who has reached age 65.
 
2.33
                       
Selected Affiliate.
 
"Selected Affiliate" means (1) any company in an unbroken chain of companies beginning with the Company if each of the companies other than the last company in the chain owns or controls, directly or indirectly, stock possessing not less than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other companies, or (2) any partnership or joint venture in which one or more of such companies is a partner or venturer, each of which shall be selected by the Committee.
 
2.34
                       
Total Desired Match.
 
"Total Desired Match" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a).
 
2.35
                       
Valuation Date.
 
"Valuation Date" means a date on which the amount of a Participant's Account is valued as provided in Article V.  The Valuation Date shall be the last day of each calendar quarter and any other date determined by the Committee.
3.1
                              
Eligibility.
 
Eligibility to participate in the 2005 Plan is limited to Eligible Employees.  From time to time, and subject to Section 3.4, the Committee shall prepare, and attach to the 2005 Plan as Exhibit A, a complete list of the Eligible Employees, by individual name or by reference to an identifiable group of persons or by descriptions of the components of compensation of an individual which would qualify individuals who are eligible to participate, and all of whom shall be a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
 
3.2
                              
Participation.
 
  Participation in the 2005 Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in the 2005 Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Committee.  An Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the 2005 Plan upon the first day of the 2005 Plan Year, following the receipt of his or her Participation Agreement by the Committee in the preceding calendar year or within 30 days of becoming a Participant if such date occurs after the commencement of the 2005 Plan Year.
(a)
                                 
Regular Deferrals.
 
.  Notwithstanding (a), an Eligible Employee who is required to defer a Required Deferral Amount into the 2005 Plan under Section 4.1(c) shall automatically become a Participant in the 2005 Plan regardless of whether the Participant files a Participation Agreement.
(b)
                                
Required Deferrals
 
3.3
                              
Change in Participation Status.
 
  A Participant may not terminate his or her participation in the 2005 Plan during the 2005 Plan Year.
(a)
                                 
Regular Deferral and Elective Deferral Amounts.
 
.  A Participant shall only be permitted to terminate the deferral of Required Deferral Amounts in accordance with the provisions of the governing employee benefit or bonus plan under which the payment was made and, until paid to the Participant, such amounts shall remain in deferred status under the 2005 Plan or, if applicable, any successor plan.
(b)
                                
Required Deferral Amounts
 
.  Amounts credited to a Participant's Account under the 2005 Plan shall continue to be payable pursuant to, receive investment credit on, and otherwise be governed by, the terms of the 2005 Plan.
(c)
                                 
Amounts Credited
 
3.4
                              
Ineligible Participant
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this 2005 Plan to the contrary, if the Committee determines that any Participant may not qualify as a "management or highly compensated employee" within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or regulations thereunder, the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that such Participant shall cease to be eligible to participate in this 2005 Plan.
4.1
                              
Deferral Amounts.
 
.  With respect to the 2005 Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer a specified percentage of his or her Compensation as provided in Exhibit B by filing a deferral election prior to the commencement of the 2005 Plan Year or, in the case of the first year in which a Participant becomes eligible to participate after commencement of the 2005 Plan Year, within 30 days after initial eligibility.  A Participant may not change the percentage of his or her Compensation to be deferred during the 2005 Plan Year.
(a)
                                 
Regular Deferral Amount
 
.  A Participant may elect to defer a specified percentage or designated item of Other Income to the extent such income is attributable to services performed by the Participant after the election becomes effective, and the deferral election with respect to such income is filed prior to commencement of the 2005 Plan Year or, in the case of the first year in which a Participant becomes eligible to participate after commencement of the 2005 Plan Year, within 30 days after initial eligibility.  In the case of an election with respect to Other Income granted in the form of restricted property or other property subject to any vesting criteria, the election must also be made prior to the award of such property, subject however to such flexibility as may be provided in regulations under Section 409A of the Code.  A Participant may not change the percentage or designated items of his or her Other Income to be deferred during the 2005 Plan Year.
(b)
                                
Elective Deferral Amount
 
.  A Participant may be entitled to receive an award, other than Compensation, under a special benefit or bonus plan (other than a plan listed on Exhibit B), the terms of which require deferral of some or all of the award into his or her Deferral Account until a date specified in the underlying award agreement, and which date shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant required to defer a Required Deferral Amount shall not be permitted to elect to make a change in the required deferral, except as otherwise permitted by the terms of the special benefit or bonus plan and Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
                                 
Required Deferral Amount
 
4.2
                              
Matching Amount.
 
.  The Employer shall provide Matching Amounts under this 2005 Plan with respect to each Participant who is eligible to be allocated matching contributions under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.  The total Matching Amounts under this 2005 Plan on behalf of a Participant for the 2005 Plan Year shall not exceed the difference between the Total Desired Match and the actual match under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.  The "Total Desired Match" is the match which would be credited to the Participant under the Equitable 401(k) Plan based upon such Participant's deferral election, absent the limitations of Sections 402(g), 401(a)(17), and 415 of the Code.  Except as expressly provided herein, the terms and conditions of any Matching Amount provided under this 2005 Plan shall be the same as provided in the Equitable 401(k) Plan.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, (i) no Participant may receive a Matching Amount payable in shares of the Common Stock of the Company in excess of 25% of the Participant's cash compensation and (ii) no Matching Amounts shall be payable hereunder in shares of the Common Stock of the Company unless the Participants in the 2005 Plan include substantially all of those employees of the Company whose compensation exceeds the amount set forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or any successor provision.
(a)
                                 
Matching Amount
 
Neither Elective Deferral Amounts nor Required Deferral Amounts shall be credited with any matching contributions under the 2005 Plan.
(b)
                                
4.3
                              
Crediting of Deferral Amounts and Matching Amounts.
 
Participant's Deferral Amounts shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Deferral Account periodically, the frequency of which will be determined by the Committee.  To the extent that the Employer is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from a Participant's Deferral Amounts pursuant to any state, federal or local law, such amounts shall be withheld only from the Participant's income other than the Deferral Amounts.  The Matching Amounts under the 2005 Plan for each Participant shall be credited by the Employer to the Participant's Matching Account periodically, the frequency of which will be determined by the Committee.
 
 
5.1
                              
Valuation of Account.
 
As of each Valuation Date, a Participant's Account shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date, plus the Participant's Deferral Amounts and Matching Amounts credited pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, plus or minus investment gain or loss credited as of such Valuation Date pursuant to Section 5.2, minus the aggregate amount of distributions, if any, made from such Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date.
 
5.2
                              
Crediting of Investment Return.
 
As of each Valuation Date, each Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account shall be increased or decreased by the amount of investment gain or loss earned since the immediately preceding Valuation Date.  Investment return shall be credited at the Investment Return Rate as of such Valuation Date based on the balance of the Participant's Deferral Account and Matching Account, respectively, since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, but after such Accounts have been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for such period.  Investment return for the period prior to the first Valuation Date applicable to a Deferral Account or a Matching Account shall be deemed earned ratably over such period.  Until a Participant or his or her Beneficiary receives his or her entire Account, the unpaid balance thereof shall earn an investment return as provided in this Section 5.2.
 
5.3
                              
Statement of Accounts.
 
The Committee shall provide to each Participant, within 30 days after the close of each calendar quarter, a statement setting forth the balance of such Participant's Account as of the last day of the preceding calendar quarter and showing all adjustments made thereto during such calendar quarter.
 
5.4
                              
Vesting of Amounts.
 
Except as provided in Sections 10.1 and 10.2, a Participant shall be 100% vested in the amounts credited to his or her Account in the event of a Change in Control.  Prior to a Change in Control, amounts credited to a Participant's Deferral Account or Matching Account shall vest in accordance with the following paragraphs of this Section 5.4.
 
.  A Participant shall be 100% vested in the Regular Deferral Amounts credited to his or her Deferral Account at all times.
(a)
                                 
Regular Deferral Amounts
 
.  A Participant shall be 100% vested in the Elective Deferral Amounts credited to his or her Deferral Account at all times.
(b)
                                
Elective Deferral Amounts
 
.  Required Deferral Amounts shall vest in accordance with the provisions of the special benefit or bonus plan under which the award is deferred into the 2005 Plan.
(c)
                                 
Required Deferral Amounts
 
.  A Participant's Matching Amounts shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule for Company Contributions under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.
(d)
                                
Matching Amounts
 
.  Forfeitures under the 2005 Plan shall be for the benefit of the Company and shall not be credited to other Participants.
(e)
                                 
Application of Forfeitures
of Regular, Elective and Required Deferral Amounts.
5.5
                              
Investment
 
A Participant may direct that the portion of his or her Deferral Account attributable to Regular and Elective Deferral Amounts under Sections 4.1(a) and 4.1(b) be deemed to be invested in one or more of the investment options listed in Exhibit C, in increments of whole percents (1%) or whole dollars ($1.00) of the value of his or her Regular Deferral and Elective Deferral Amount (a "New Money Election").  A Participant also may direct that Regular and Elective Deferral Amounts previously credited to his or her Deferral Account and deemed to be invested in one or more of the investment options listed in Exhibit C, be transferred, in increments of whole percents (1%) or whole dollars ($1.00) of the value of his or her Regular and Elective Deferral Amount between and among the then available investment options listed in Exhibit C (a "Reallocation Election"); provided that a Participant may not reallocate Regular and Elective Deferral Amounts previously credited to his or her Deferral Account and deemed to be invested in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund.  A New Money Election or a Reallocation Election must be filed with the Committee in accordance with uniform rules established by the Committee.  A Reallocation Election shall not change a Participant's existing New Money election.  A Participant may direct investment of his or her Required Deferral Amounts under Section 4.1(c) in the same manner as Regular and Elective Deferral Amounts, unless otherwise provided under the terms of the special benefit or bonus plan under which the award was made.
 
The effective date of any New Money Election or Reallocation Election shall be the Valuation Date on which such election is received by the Committee in accordance with uniform rules established by the Committee.  The Company is not required to follow any deemed investment election of any Participant and reserves the right to refuse to honor any Participant direction related to investments or withdrawals, including transfers among investment options, where necessary or desirable to assure compliance with applicable law including U.S. and other securities laws.  However, the Company does not assume any responsibility for compliance by officers or others with any such laws, and any failure by the Company to delay or dishonor any such direction shall not be deemed to increase the Company's legal exposure to the Participant or third parties.
 
The election of deemed investments among the options provided above shall be the sole responsibility of each Participant.  The Company, the Employers, their employees and Committee members are not authorized to make any recommendation to any Participant with respect to such election.  Each Participant assumes all risk connected with any adjustment to the value of his Deferral Account.  Neither the Committee, the Company, nor the Employers in any way guarantees against loss or depreciation.
 
5.6
                              
Investment of Matching Amounts.
 
Notwithstanding anything in Section 5.5 to the contrary, all amounts credited to a Participant's Matching Account under Section 4.2 shall be deemed to be invested in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund.  A Participant shall have no right to direct the investment of the amounts to be credited to his Matching Account.
6.1
                              
Payment of Deferral Benefits.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 or 6.7, the Employer shall pay to the Participant or his Beneficiary a Deferral Benefit equal to the balance of his or her vested Account determined pursuant to Article V, less any amounts previously distributed, based on his written Deferral Election, in such form as provided in Section 6.5; provided further that distributions to "key employees" as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code may not be made earlier than six months after the date of separation from service.
 
6.2
                              
Payment of Deferral Benefit upon Termination.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.7, upon the termination of service of the Participant as an employee of the Employer and all Selected Affiliates for reasons other than death, Disability, Early Retirement or Retirement, the Employer shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit in a lump sum equal to the balance of his or her vested Account determined pursuant to Article V, less any amounts previously distributed, as soon as administratively practicable following such termination; provided further that distributions to "key employees" as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code may not be made earlier than six months after the date of separation from service.
 
6.3
                              
Payments to Beneficiaries upon Death of Participant.
 
In the event of the Participant's death after commencement of installment payments but prior to his or her receipt of all elected annual installments, his or her Beneficiary will receive the remaining annual installments at such times as such installments would have become distributable to the Participant.  In the event of the Participant's death prior to commencement of installment payments due under the 2005 Plan, the first installment payment to the Beneficiary, shall be made on the last business day of March in the calendar year following the calendar year during which the Participant's death occurs and shall be paid in the same form of payment as would have been applicable to the Participant had the Participant survived.
 
6.4
                              
Hardship Withdrawal.
 
In the event that the Committee, upon the written request of a Participant, determines, in its sole discretion, that the Participant has suffered an unforeseeable emergency, the Company shall pay to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such determination, an amount necessary to meet the emergency (the "Hardship Withdrawal"), but not exceeding the aggregate balance of such Participant's vested Deferral Account as of the date of such payment.  For purposes of this Section 6.4, an "unforeseeable emergency" means a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or Beneficiary, the Participant's or Beneficiary's spouse, or the Participant's or Beneficiary's dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code), loss of the Participant's or Beneficiary's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant or Beneficiary.  The Participant or Beneficiary shall provide to the Committee such evidence as the Committee may require to demonstrate that such emergency exists and financial hardship would occur if the withdrawal were not permitted.  The amount of a Hardship Withdrawal may not exceed the amount the Committee reasonably determines to be necessary to meet such emergency needs (including taxes incurred by reason of a taxable distribution).  The form of payment of the Hardship Withdrawal shall be a lump sum cash payment.  The amount of the Deferral Benefit otherwise payable under the 2005 Plan to such Participant shall be adjusted to
the Equitable Common Stock Fund (the "Non Stock Investments") and, second, to the extent the Hardship Withdrawal cannot be fully satisfied by a deemed withdrawal of the Non Stock Investments, from the portion deemed invested in the Company Stock Fund.
reflect the early payment of the Hardship Withdrawal.  For purposes of reducing a Participant's Deferral Account and adjusting the balances in the various investment options in which such reduced Deferral Account is deemed to be invested to reflect such Hardship Withdrawal, amounts represented by such Hardship Withdrawal shall be deemed to have been withdrawn first, on a pro rata basis, from that portion of his Deferral Account deemed to be invested in investment options
other
than
 
Notwithstanding the preceding, to the extent the Participant has directed that any portion of his Deferral Account be invested in the Company Stock Fund, the Company shall distribute such portion in such number of shares of Equitable Resources Common Stock based on the value at the date of distribution.
 
6.5
                              
Form of Payment.
 
The Deferral Benefit payable pursuant to Section 6.1 shall be paid in one of the following forms, as elected by the Participant in his or her Deferral Election on file with respect to the 2005 Plan Year.
 
Annual payments of a fixed amount which shall amortize the vested Account balance as of the payment commencement date over a period of five, ten or fifteen years (together, in the case of each annual payment, with interest thereon credited after the payment commencement date pursuant to Section 5.2).
(a)
                                 
 
A lump sum.
(b)
                                
 
In the event a Participant fails to make a distribution election, his or her vested Account balance shall be distributed in a lump sum.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, but except as provided in Section 4.2 and Section 5.6, that portion of a Participant's Account attributable to all Matching Amounts shall be paid in Common Stock of the Company, with any fractional shares paid in cash in a lump sum.
 
Payment of the Deferral Amount may not commence earlier than (i) separation from service, (ii) Disability or (iii) death, except and to the extent for payment of a Required Deferral Amount on the date specified in the underlying award agreement.
 
6.6
                              
Commencement of Payments.
 
Commencement of payments under Section 6.1 of the 2005 Plan shall begin within 60 days following receipt of written notice by the Committee of an event which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under the 2005 Plan.
 
6.7
                              
Limited Account Size; Lump Sum Payment.
 
In the event the Committee determines that the balance of a Participant's vested Account is less than $10,000 at the time of commencement of payments (or such other amount permitted by law to be distributed), or the portion of the balance of the Participant's vested Account payable to any Beneficiary is less than $10,000 at the time of commencement of payments (or such other amount permitted by law to be distributed), the Committee may inform the Employer and the Employer, in its discretion, may choose to pay the benefit in the form of a lump sum payment, notwithstanding any provision of the 2005 Plan or a Participant election to the contrary.  Such lump sum payment shall be equal to the balance of the Participant's vested Account or the portion thereof payable to a Beneficiary.
6.8
                              
Limitation on Distributions.
 
In the case of a change in ownership or effective control of the Company, as defined in Section 409A of the Code or the regulations thereunder, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no distributions may be made earlier than the date permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder to any Participant who is subject to such requirements.
7.1
                              
Beneficiary Designation.
 
Each Participant shall have the sole right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his Beneficiary to whom payment under the 2005 Plan shall be made in the event of his or her death prior to complete distribution to the Participant of his or her Account.  Any Beneficiary designation shall be made in a written instrument provided by the Committee.  All Beneficiary designations must be filed with the Committee and shall be effective only when received in writing by the Committee.  In the event that a Beneficiary form has not been filed, the Beneficiary to whom payment has been designated under the Equitable 401(k) Plan shall be used.
 
7.2
                              
Change of Beneficiary Designation.
 
Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant by the filing of a new Beneficiary designation, which will cancel all Beneficiary designations previously filed but which will not be effective and supersede all prior designations until it is received and acknowledged by the Committee or its delegate.  The designation of a Beneficiary may be made or changed at any time without the consent of any person.
 
7.3
                              
No Designation.
 
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate.
 
7.4
                              
Effect of Payment.
 
Payment to a Participant's Beneficiary (or, upon the death of a primary Beneficiary, to the contingent Beneficiary or, if none, to the Participant's estate) shall completely discharge the Employer's obligations under the 2005 Plan.
8.1
                              
Committee.
 
The administrative committee for the 2005 Plan (the "Committee") shall be the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company.  The Committee shall have (i) complete discretion to supervise the administration and operation of the 2005 Plan, (ii) complete discretion to adopt rules and procedures governing the 2005 Plan from time to time, and (iii) sole authority to give interpretive rulings with respect to the 2005 Plan.
 
8.2
                              
Investments.
 
The Benefits Investment Committee of the Company shall have the sole discretion to choose the investment options available under the 2005 Plan and to change or eliminate such investment options, from time to time, as it deems appropriate.
 
8.3
                              
Agents.
 
The Committee may appoint an individual, who may be an employee of the Company, to be the Committee's agent with respect to the day-to-day administration of the 2005 Plan.  In addition, the Committee may, from time to time, employ other agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit, and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to the Company.
 
8.4
                              
Binding Effect of Decisions.
 
Any decision or action of the Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the 2005 Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the 2005 Plan.
 
8.5
                              
Indemnification of Committee.
 
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and the Benefits Investment Committee and their duly appointed agents under Section 8.3 against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense or liability arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the 2005 Plan, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member or agent of the Committee or Benefits Investment Committee.
 
9.1
                              
Amendment.
 
The Company, on behalf of itself and of each Selected Affiliate may at any time amend, suspend or reinstate any or all of the provisions of the 2005 Plan, except that no such amendment, suspension or reinstatement may adversely affect any Participant's Account, as it existed as of the day before the effective date of such amendment, suspension or reinstatement, without such Participant's prior written consent.  Written notice of any amendment or other action with respect to the 2005 Plan shall be given to each Participant.
 
9.2
                              
Termination.
 
The Company, on behalf of itself and of each Selected Affiliate, in its sole discretion, may terminate this 2005 Plan at any time and for any reason whatsoever unless and to the extent otherwise provided by the special benefit or bonus plan governing a particular account.  On and after the 2005 Plan termination, the Committee shall take those actions necessary to administer any Accounts existing prior to the effective date of such termination; provided, however, that a termination of the 2005 Plan shall not adversely affect the value of a Participant's Account, the crediting of investment return under Section 5.2 or the timing or method of distribution of a Participant's Account except as otherwise provided in the 2005 Plan, without the Participant's prior written consent.
10.1
                       
Funding.
 
Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors and assigns, shall have no secured interest or claim in any property or assets of the Employer or the Company.  The Employer's and the Company's obligation under the 2005 Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Employer or the Company to pay money in the future. To the extent that any Participant or Beneficiary or other person acquires a right to receive payments under the 2005 Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right, and each Participant and Beneficiary shall at all times have the status, of a general unsecured creditor of the Company or any Employer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change in Control, the Company shall create an irrevocable trust, subject to the claim of creditors, or before such time the Company may create such an irrevocable or revocable trust, to hold funds to be used in payment of the obligations of Employers under the 2005 Plan if such trust will not cause the 2005 Plan to be considered a funded deferred compensation plan under ERISA or the Code.  In the event of a Change in Control or prior thereto, the Employers shall fund such trust in an amount equal to not less than the total value of the Participants' Accounts under the 2005 Plan as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Change in Control, provided that any funds contained therein shall remain liable for the claims of the respective Employer's general creditors.
 
10.2
                       
Nonassignability.
 
No right or interest under the 2005 Plan of a Participant or his or her Beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under any of them) shall be assignable or transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any such Participant or Beneficiary.  If any Participant or Beneficiary shall attempt to or shall transfer, assign, alienate, anticipate, sell, pledge or otherwise encumber his or her benefits hereunder or any part thereof, or if by reason of his or her bankruptcy or other event happening at any time such benefits would devolve upon anyone else or would not be enjoyed by him or her, then the Committee, in its discretion, may terminate his or her interest in any such benefit (including the Deferral Account) to the extent the Committee considers necessary or advisable to prevent or limit the effects of such occurrence.  Termination shall be effected by filing a written "termination declaration" with the Clerk of the Company and making reasonable efforts to deliver a copy to the Participant or Beneficiary whose interest is adversely affected (the "Terminated Participant").
 
As long as the Terminated Participant is alive, any benefits affected by the termination shall be retained by the Employer and, in the Committee's sole and absolute judgment, may be paid to or expended for the benefit of the Terminated Participant, his or her spouse, his or her children or any other person or persons in fact dependent upon him or her in such a manner and at such times as the Committee shall deem proper.  Upon the death of the Terminated Participant, all benefits withheld from him or her and not paid to others in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be disposed of according to the provisions of the 2005 Plan that would apply if he or she died prior to the time that all benefits to which he or she was entitled were paid to him or her.
 
10.3
                       
Legal Fees and Expenses.
 
It is the intent of the Company and each Selected Affiliate that no Eligible Employee or former Eligible Employee be required to incur the expenses associated with the enforcement of his or her rights under this 2005 Plan by litigation or other legal action because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be
extended to an Eligible Employee hereunder.  Accordingly, if after a Change in Control it should appear that the Employer has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this 2005 Plan or in the event that the Employer or any other person takes any action to declare this 2005 Plan void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation designed to deny, or to recover from, the Eligible Employee the benefits intended to be provided to such Eligible Employee hereunder, the Employer irrevocably authorizes such Eligible Employee from time to time to retain counsel of his or her choice, at the expense of the Employer as hereafter provided, to represent such Eligible Employee in connection with the initiation or defense of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Employer or any director, officer, stockholder or other person affiliated with the Employer in any jurisdiction.  Notwithstanding any existing or prior attorney-client relationship between the Employer and such counsel, the Employer irrevocably consents to such Eligible Employee's entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection the Employer and such Eligible Employee agree that a confidential relationship shall exist between such Eligible Employee and such counsel, The Employer shall pay and be solely responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses incurred by such Eligible Employee as a result of the Employer's failure to perform under this 2005 Plan or any provision thereof; or as a result of the Employer or any person contesting the validity or enforceability of this 2005 Plan or any provision thereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall require the Company to pay any attorney or related fees and expenses or to consent to an Employee's use of counsel retained by the Company prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control.
 
10.4
                       
No Acceleration of Benefits.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, there shall be no acceleration of the time or schedule of any payments under the 2005 Plan, except as may be provided in regulations under Section 409A of the Code.
 
10.5
                       
Captions.
 
The captions contained herein are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction hereof.
 
10.6
                       
Governing Law.
 
The provisions of the 2005 Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions.
 
10.7
                       
Successors.
 
The provisions of the 2005 Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its Selected Affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns.  The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company or a Selected Affiliate and successors of any such Company or other business entity.
 
10.8
                       
No Right to Continued Service.
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continue to serve as an Eligible Employee of the Employer or in any other capacity

Exhibit 10.2
 
1.1
Purpose of Plan.
                              
 
This Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (the "") hereby is created to provide an opportunity for the members of the Board of Directors of Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "") to defer payment of all or a portion of the fees to which they are entitled as compensation for their services as members of the Board.  The 2005 Plan also shall administer the payment of stock units and phantom stock awarded pursuant to the 1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan (the "").
2005 Plan
Board
NEDSIP
 
DEFINITIONS
 
When used in this 2005 Plan and initially capitalized, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
 
means the total of a Participant's Deferral Account and Phantom Stock Account under the 2005 Plan.
2.1
"Account"
                              
 
 
means the person or persons designated or deemed to be designated by the Participant pursuant to Section 7.1 of the 2005 Plan to receive benefits payable under the 2005 Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
2.2
"Beneficiary"
                              
 
means any of the following events:
2.3
"Change in Control"
                              
 
The sale or other disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to a single purchaser or to a group of purchasers, other than to a corporation with respect to which, following such sale or disposition, more than eighty percent (80%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding
(a)
                                 
voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors is then owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the outstanding Company common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the outstanding Company common stock and voting power immediately prior to such sale or disposition.
 
The acquisition in one or more transactions by any person or group, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the outstanding shares of Company common stock or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board; provided, however, that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (y) any person that is eligible, pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b) under the Exchange Act (as such rule is in effect as of February 25, 2004) to file a statement on Schedule 13G with respect to its beneficial ownership of Company common stock and other voting securities whether or not such person shall have filed a statement on Schedule 13G, unless such person shall have filed a statement on Schedule 13D with respect to beneficial ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Company's voting securities, shall not constitute a Change in Control;
(b)
                                
 
The Company's termination of its business and liquidation of its assets;
(c)
                                 
The reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company into or with another person or entity, by which reorganization, merger or consolidation the persons who hold one hundred percent (100%) of the voting securities of the Company prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation receive or continue to hold less than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding voting shares of the new or continuing corporation; or
(d)
                                
 
If, during any two-year period, less than a majority of the members of the Board are persons who were either (i) nominated or recommended for election by at least two-thirds vote of the persons who were members of the Board or Nominating Committee of the Board at the beginning of the period, or (ii) elected by at least two-thirds vote of the persons who were members of the Board at the beginning of the period.
(e)
                                 
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.4
"Code"
                              
 
means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
2.5
"Committee"
                              
 
means Equitable Resources, Inc. and any successor thereto.
2.6
"Company"
                              
 
means the recordkeeping account established on the books and records of the Company to record a Participant's deferral amounts under Section 5.1 of the 2005 Plan, plus or minus any investment gain or loss allocable thereto under Section 5.4 of the 2005 Plan.
2.7
"Deferral Account"
                              
 
means the fees that are paid by the Company to members of the Board as compensation for services performed by them as members of the Board.
2.8
"Directors' Fees"
                              
 
means the agreement to participate and related elections filed by a Participant pursuant to Section 5.1 of the 2005 Plan, in the form prescribed by the Committee,
2.9
"Enrollment Form"
                              
directing the Company to reduce the amount of Directors' Fees otherwise currently payable to the Participant and credit such amount to the Participant's Deferral Account hereunder.
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3 of the 2005 Plan.
2.10
"Hardship Withdrawal"
                       
 
means the investment options described in Exhibit A to the 2005 Plan into which a Participant may direct all or part of his or her Deferral Account.
2.11
"Investment Options"
                       
 
means:
2.12
"Investment Return Rate"
                       
 
In the case of an Investment Option named in Exhibit A of a fixed income nature, the interest deemed to be credited as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to the same investment option provided under the Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings Plan, originally adopted September 1, 1985, as amended ();
(a)
                                 
"Equitable 401(k) Plan"
 
In the case of a Investment Option named in Exhibit A of an equity investment nature, the increase or decrease in deemed value and any dividends deemed to be credited as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to the same investment option provided under the Equitable 401(k) Plan; or
(b)
                                
 
In the case of the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund, the increase or decrease in the deemed value, and the reinvestment in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund of any dividends deemed to be credited, as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to investments in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.
(c)
                                 
means a grantor trust that be established prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company to assist the Company in fulfilling its obligations under this 2005 Plan but which be established by the Company in the event of a Change in Control of the Company.  All amounts held in such Irrevocable Trust shall remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company and Participants in this 2005 Plan shall have no greater rights to any amounts held in any such Irrevocable Trust than any other unsecured general creditor of the Company.
2.13
"Irrevocable Trust"
                       
may
shall
 
means any non-employee member of the Board (i) who receives an award of Phantom Stock under the NEDSIP and/or (ii) who elects to participate in the 2005 Plan for purposes of deferring his or her Directors' Fees by filing an Enrollment Form with the Committee pursuant to Section 5.1 of the 2005 Plan.
2.14
"Participant"
                       
 
means those shares of the common stock or stock units of the Company:
2.15
"Phantom Stock"
                       
 
awarded pursuant to the NEDSIP, and
(i)
                                    
 
which will be distributed to eligible 2005 Plan Participants in the form elected by the 2005 Plan Participant and on the date specified in the Phantom Stock Agreement referred to in Section 2.17 of the 2005 Plan, which date is deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
(ii)
                                 
 
means the recordkeeping account established on the books and records of the Company to record the number of shares of Phantom Stock allocated to a Participant under the 2005 Plan.
2.16
"Phantom Stock Account"
                       
 
means any agreements and/or terms of award of Phantom Stock under the NEDSIP pursuant to which Phantom Stock is or may be payable.
2.17
"Phantom Stock Agreement"
                       
means this Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.
2.18
"2005 Plan"
                       
 
means the twelve-month period commencing January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2005.
2.19
"Plan Year"
                       
 
means the last day of each calendar quarter and any other date determined by the Committee or specified herein.
2.20
"Valuation Date"
                       
 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
 
3.1
Eligibility for Phantom Stock Account.
                              
 
Eligibility to participate in the 2005 Plan for purposes of the Phantom Stock Account under Article IV of the 2005 Plan is limited to those non-employee members of the Board who receive Phantom Stock pursuant to the terms of the NEDSIP.  An eligible Board member shall commence participation in the 2005 Plan for purposes of the Phantom Stock Account on the date on which an award of Phantom Stock is made pursuant to the terms of the NEDSIP.
 
3.2
Eligibility for Deferral Account.
                              
 
Eligibility to participate in the 2005 Plan for purposes of deferring Directors' Fees under Section 5.1 of the 2005 Plan is limited to non-employee members of the Board.  An eligible Board member shall commence participation in the 2005 Plan for purposes of deferring Directors' Fees as of the first day of the Plan Year following the receipt of his or her Enrollment Form by the Committee in the preceding calendar year or within 30 days of becoming a Participant if such date occurs after the commencement of the Plan Year.
3.3
Ineligible Participant.
                              
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this 2005 Plan to the contrary, if the Committee determines that the participation in the 2005 Plan by any Board member will jeopardize the status of the 2005 Plan as exempt from the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), or regulations thereunder, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine that such Participant shall cease to be eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan.
ERISA
 
PHANTOM STOCK ACCOUNT
 
4.1
Phantom Stock Award.
                              
 
As of the date of any Phantom Stock award pursuant to the terms of the NEDSIP, the Phantom Stock Account of a Participant eligible for such award shall be credited with the number of Phantom Stock units as specified in such award.  The Company shall not be required to contribute any shares or other property to the Irrevocable Trust for such awards.
 
4.2
Valuation of Phantom Stock Account; Deemed Reinvestment of Dividends
                              
 
As of each Valuation Date, the value of a Participant's Phantom Stock Account shall equal (i) the value of the number of shares of Phantom Stock credited to such account as of the last Valuation Date, plus (ii) the value of the number of shares of Phantom Stock deemed to have been credited to such account as a result of the deemed reinvestment of any dividends deemed to have been paid on such Phantom Stock since the last Valuation Date.  Any dividends paid on the common stock of the Company shall be deemed to be paid on the Phantom Stock under the 2005 Plan in an equal amount; provided, however, that to the extent they are paid in a form other than additional shares of the common stock of the Company, they shall be deemed to be immediately reinvested in such number of shares of the common stock of the Company as are represented by
the aggregate amount of the dividends divided by the value of one share of the common stock of the Company on the date the dividend is paid.
 
For purposes of this 2005 Plan, the "value" of a share of Phantom Stock shall be deemed to equal the closing price of a share of Company common stock as listed on the New York Stock Exchange () on any date of reference.  In the event that the date of reference is a date on which the NYSE is not open for business, the value of a share of Phantom Stock shall equal the average of the closing prices on the dates immediately preceding and following the date of reference during which the NYSE was open for business.  Notwithstanding anything in this 2005 Plan to the contrary, the Company may adopt alternate procedures for determining the value of Phantom Stock in the event Company common stock ceases to be traded on the NYSE or to reflect the occurrence of a Conversion Event described in Section 4.3.
"NYSE"
 
For purposes of determining the value of the Phantom Stock credited to a Participant's Phantom Stock Account as of any time of reference, each share of Phantom Stock shall be deemed equivalent in value to one share of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company.  For purposes of valuing a Participant's Phantom Stock Account upon the termination of his or her membership on the Board, the Valuation Date shall be the business day coincident with or immediately preceding the termination of the Participant's Board membership.
 
4.3
Adjustment and Substitution of Phantom Stock
                              
 
In the event of:  (a) a stock split (or reverse stock split) with respect to the common stock of the Company; (b) the conversion of the common stock of the Company into another form of security or debt instrument of the Company; (c) the reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company into or with another person or entity; or (d) any other action which would alter the number of, and/or shareholder rights of, holders of outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company (collectively, a ), then, notwithstanding the fact that 2005 Plan Participants have no rights to the shares of Company common stock represented by their
"Conversion Event"
Phantom Stock Account nor to the shares of such Company common stock which may be contributed by the Company to the Irrevocable Trust, the number of shares of Phantom Stock then allocated to a Participant's Phantom Stock Account shall be deemed to be converted, to the extent possible, to reflect any such Conversion Event to the same extent as the shares of holders of outstanding shares of Company common stock would have been converted upon the occurrence of the Conversion Event.  On and after any such Conversion Event, this 2005 Plan shall be applied, as if the Participant's Phantom Stock Account was comprised of the cash, securities, notes or other instruments into which the outstanding shares of Company common stock was converted.  Following the occurrence of a Conversion Event, the Board is authorized to amend the 2005 Plan as it, in its sole discretion, determines to be necessary or appropriate to address any administrative or operational details presented by the Conversion Event which are not addressed in the 2005 Plan.
mutatis mutandis,
 
4.4
Shareholder Rights.
                              
 
Except as specifically provided herein, an award of Phantom Stock under the 2005 Plan shall not entitle a Participant to voting rights or any other rights of a shareholder of the Company.
 
4.5
Statement of Phantom Stock Account.
                              
 
As soon as administratively feasible following the last day of each calendar quarter, the Committee shall provide to each eligible Participant a statement of the value of his or her Phantom Stock Account as of the most recent Valuation Date.
DEFERRAL ACCOUNT
 
5.1
Deferral of Directors' Fees.
                              
 
Any non-employee member of the Board may elect to defer a specified percentage of his or her Directors' Fees under the 2005 Plan by submitting to the Committee a written Enrollment Form.  Such election shall be effective with respect to Directors' Fees paid for services performed by such Participant beginning the first day of the Plan Year following the receipt by the Committee of the Participant's Enrollment Form in the preceding calendar year and shall remain in effect for the Plan Year.  A Participant may not withdraw his or her Enrollment Form during the Plan Year.
 
5.2
Investment Direction.
                              
 
A Participant may direct that amounts deferred pursuant to his or her Enrollment Form be deemed to be invested in one or more of the Investment Options listed in Exhibit A to the 2005 Plan (a ) and credited with shares or units in each such Investment Option in the same manner as equivalent contributions would be invested under the same Investment Options available under the Equitable 401(k) Plan.  Except as otherwise provided with respect to directions to invest in the Equitable Resources Common Stock Fund (), a Participant may direct that amounts previously credited to his or her Deferral Account and deemed invested in the available Investment Options be transferred between and among the then available Investment Options (a ).
"New Money Election"
"Company Stock Fund"
"Reallocation Election"
 
Special rules apply to directions to invest in the Company Stock Fund.  No restrictions are placed on New Money Elections.  Accordingly, a Participant may make a New Money Election to invest in the Company Stock Fund or to cease future investments in such Fund in the same manner as any other Investment Option.  Reallocation Elections, however, may direct that
not
amounts previously credited to a Participant's Deferral Account and which were directed to be invested in the Company Stock Fund be transferred of such Fund and into another Investment Option.
out
 
Reallocation Elections the Company Stock Fund are permitted.  Accordingly, no restrictions apply to Reallocation Elections directing that amounts previously credited to a Participant's Deferral Account and which were directed to be invested in an Investment Option the Company Stock Fund be transferred out of such other Investment Option and into the Company Stock Fund.
into
other than
 
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the Company common stock, regardless of whether the investment direction is a New Money Election or a Reallocation Election, a Participant's Deferral Account shall only be deemed to be invested in such Investment Options for purposes of crediting investment gain or loss under Section 5.4 of the 2005 Plan and the Company shall not be required to actually invest, on behalf of any Participant, in any Investment Option listed on Exhibit A to the 2005 Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Company may, but shall not be required to, elect to make contributions to an Irrevocable Trust in an amount equal to the amounts deferred by Participants and actually invest such contributions in the Investment Options elected by a particular Participant; that the Company contribute shares of Company common stock to the Irrevocable Trust in an amount equal to the aggregate number of shares of Company common stock represented by Participant investment directions to the Company Stock Fund.  Any such contributions to an Irrevocable Trust and related investments shall be solely to assist the Company in satisfying its obligations under this 2005 Plan and no Participant shall have any right, title or interest whatsoever in any such contributions or investments.
provided, however,
shall
 
All investment elections shall be made by written notice to the Committee in accordance with uniform procedures established by the Committee; provided, however, that investment directions
to an Investment Option must be in multiples of whole percents (1%) or whole dollars ($1.00).  Any such investment election shall be effective as of the Valuation Date immediately following the date on which the written notice is received and shall remain in effect until changed by the Participant.  In the event that a Participant fails to direct the investment of his or her account, the Committee shall direct such Participant's Deferral Account to an Investment Option named in Exhibit A of a fixed income nature.
 
5.3
No Right to Investment Options.
                              
 
Notwithstanding anything in the 2005 Plan to the contrary, the Investment Options offered under the 2005 Plan may be changed or eliminated at any time in the sole discretion of the Benefits Investment Committee of the Company.  Prior to the change or elimination of any Investment Option under the 2005 Plan, the Committee shall provide written notice to each Participant with respect to whom a Deferral Account is maintained under the 2005 Plan and any Participant who has directed any part of his or her Deferral Account to such Investment Option shall be permitted to redirect such portion of his or her Deferral Account to another Investment Option offered under the 2005 Plan.
 
5.4
Crediting of Investment Return.
                              
 
Each Participant's Deferral Account shall be credited with deemed investment gain or loss at the Investment Return Rate as of each Valuation Date, based on the average daily balance of the Participant's Deferral Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, but after such Deferral Account has been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for such period.  Until a Participant or his or her Beneficiary receives his or her entire Deferral Account, the unpaid balance thereof shall be credited with investment gain or loss at the Investment Return Rate, as provided in this Section 5.4 of the 2005 Plan.
5.5
Valuation of Deferral Account.
                              
 
As of each Valuation Date, a Participant's Deferral Account shall equal (i) the balance of the Participant's Deferral Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date, plus (ii) the Participant's deferred Directors' Fees since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, plus or minus (iii) investment gain or loss credited as of such Valuation Date pursuant to Section 5.4 of the 2005 Plan, and minus (iv) the aggregate amount of distributions, if any, made from such Deferral Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date.  For purposes of valuing a Participant's Deferral Account upon the termination of the Participant's membership on the Board, the Valuation Date shall be the business day coinciding with or immediately preceding the date of the termination of the Participant's Board membership.
 
5.6
Statement of Deferral Account.
                              
 
As soon as administratively feasible following the last day of each calendar quarter, the Committee shall provide to each Participant a statement of the value of his or her Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date.
 
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
 
6.1
Payment of Phantom Stock Account.
                              
 
As soon as administratively feasible following the date provided for payment pursuant to the terms of a Phantom Stock Agreement described in Section 2.17 of the 2005 Plan, which date is deemed to be incorporated by reference herein, and, if and to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder, in accordance with the election provided in Section 6.4, the Company shall pay or distribute to the Participant or, in the event of the Participant's death, to his Beneficiary, either an amount equal to the value of the Participant's
Phantom Stock Account then payable, or the number of shares of Company common stock then payable, whichever form is elected by the Participant, based on awards credited to the Participant's Phantom Stock Account pursuant to Section 4.1 of the 2005 Plan, as determined in accordance with Article IV of the 2005 Plan, less any income tax withholding required under applicable law.
 
6.2
Payment of Deferral Account.
                              
 
Subject to the last sentence of this Section 6.2, as soon as administratively feasible following a Participant's termination of membership on the Board and in accordance with the election provided in Section 6.4 of the 2005 Plan, and without regard to whether the Participant is entitled to payment of his or her Phantom Stock Account, the Company shall pay to the Participant or, in the event of the Participant's death, to his Beneficiary, an amount equal to thevalue of the Participant's Deferral Account, as determined in accordance with Article V of the 2005 Plan, less any income tax withholding required under applicable law.  Except as otherwise provided in the following sentence, such payment shall be made in cash in the form elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 6.4 of the 2005 Plan.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, to the extent the Participant had directed that any portion of his Deferral Account be invested in the Company Stock Fund, the Company shall distribute such portion in such number of shares of Equitable Resources Common Stock as would be represented by an equal amount invested in the Company Stock Fund under the Company 401(k) Plan.
 
6.3
Hardship Withdrawal from Deferral Account.
                              
 
In the event that the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines upon the written request of a Participant in accordance with uniform procedures established from time to time by the Committee, that the Participant has suffered an unforeseeable emergency, the Company may pay to the Participant in a lump sum as soon as administratively feasible following such determination, an amount necessary to meet the emergency, but not exceeding the aggregate
balance of such Participant's Deferral Account as of the date of such payment (a "").  Any such Hardship Withdrawal shall be subject to any income tax withholding required under applicable law.  The Participant shall provide to the Committee such evidence as the Committee may require to demonstrate that such emergency exists and financial hardship would occur if the withdrawal were not permitted.
Hardship Withdrawal
 
For purposes of this Section 6.3, an "unforeseeable emergency" shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary, the Participant's or Beneficiary's spouse, or the Participant's or Beneficiary's dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code), loss of the Participant's or Beneficiary's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant or Beneficiary.  The amount of a Hardship Withdrawal may not exceed the amount the Committee reasonably determines to be necessary to meet such emergency needs (including taxes incurred by reason of a taxable distribution).
 
The form of payment of the Hardship Withdrawal shall be a lump sum cash payment.  For purposes of reducing a Participant's Deferral Account and adjusting the balances in the various Investment Options in which such reduced Deferral Account is deemed to be invested to reflect such Hardship Withdrawal, amounts represented by such Hardship Withdrawal shall be deemed to have been withdrawn first, on a pro rata basis, from that portion of his Deferral Account deemed to be invested in Investment Options the Equitable Common Stock Fund (the ) and, second, to the extent the Hardship Withdrawal cannot be fully satisfied by a deemed withdrawal of the Non Stock Investments, from the portion deemed invested in the Company Stock Fund.
other than
"Non Stock Investments"
 
Notwithstanding the preceding, to the extent the Participant had directed that any portion of his Deferral Account be invested in the Company Stock Fund, the Company shall distribute such
portion in such number of shares of Equitable Resources Common Stock based on the value at the date of distribution.
 
6.4
Form of Payment.
                              
 
  A Participant may elect to receive that portion of his or her Account payable hereunder in one of the following forms:
(a)
                                 
In General.
 
Annual payments of a fixed amount which shall amortize the value of the Account over a period of five, ten, or fifteen years (together, in the case of each annual payment, with interest and dividends credited thereto after the payment commencement date pursuant to Section 5.4 of the 2005 Plan); or
(i)
                                    
 
A lump sum.
(ii)
                                 
 
Such an election must be made in writing in accordance with uniform procedures established by the Committee at the time of filing the Enrollment Form with respect to the Plan Year.  In the event a Participant fails to make a distribution election within the time period prescribed, his or her Account shall be distributed in the form of a lump sum.  Payment of the Deferral Account may not commence earlier than (i) separation from service, (ii) disability or (iii) death.
 
  In the event the Company is required to distribute some or all of a Participant's Account in shares of Equitable Resources Common Stock in accordance with 2005 Plan Sections 6.1 and/or 6.2, the aggregate amount of such shares shall be distributed in the same manner as the Participant elected in subsection (a).  To the extent the Participant elected an installment form of payment, the number of shares of Equitable Common Stock to be distributed in each installment shall be determined by multiplying (i) the aggregate number of shares of Equitable Resources Common Stock deemed credited to the Participant's Account as of the installment payment date by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and
(b)
                                
Distribution of Company Common Stock.
the denominator of which is the number of unpaid installments, and by rounding the resulting number down to the next whole number.
 
6.5
Payments to Beneficiaries.
                              
 
In the event of a Participant's death prior to the Participant's termination of membership on the Board, the Participant's Beneficiary shall receive payment of the Phantom Stock Account (if any) in the form provided in the Phantom Stock Agreement and/or Participant's Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the Participant's death in the form elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 6.4 of the 2005 Plan, less any income tax withholding required under applicable law.  If no such election was made by the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary shall receive payment of the Participant's Account in the form of a lump sum.  In the event of the Participant's death after commencement of installment payments under the 2005 Plan, but prior to receipt of his or her entire Account, the Participant's Beneficiary shall receive the remaining installment payments at such times as such installments would have been paid to the Participant until the Participant's entire Account is paid.
 
6.6
Limited Account Size; Lump Sum Payment.
                              
 
In the event that the value of a Participant's Account is less than $10,000 as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the commencement of payment to the Participant under the 2005 Plan (or such other amount permitted by law to be distributed), or the balance of the Participant's Account payable to any Beneficiary is less than $10,000 as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the commencement of payment to the Participant's Beneficiary under the 2005 Plan (or such other amount permitted by law to be distributed), the Committee may inform the Company and the Company, in its discretion, may choose to pay the benefit in the form of a lump sum, notwithstanding any provision of the 2005 Plan or an election of a Participant under Section 6.4 of the 2005 Plan to the contrary.
6.7
Limitation on Distributions.
                              
 
In the case of a change in ownership or effective control of the Company, as defined in Section 409A of the Code or the regulations thereunder, no distributions may be made earlier than the date permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder to any Participant who is subject to such requirements.
 
BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION
 
7.1
Beneficiary Designation.
                              
 
Each Participant shall have the sole right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his or her Beneficiary to whom payment may be made of any amounts which may become payable in the event of his or her death prior to the complete distribution to the Participant of his or her Account.  Any Beneficiary designation shall be made in writing in accordance with uniform procedures established by the Committee.  A Participant's most recent Beneficiary designation shall supersede all prior Beneficiary designations.  In the event a Participant does not designate a Beneficiary under the 2005 Plan, any payments due under the 2005 Plan shall be made first to the Participant's spouse; if no spouse, then in equal amounts to the Participant's children; if no children, then to the Participant's estate.
 
ADMINISTRATION
 
8.1
Committee.
                              
 
The Committee shall have sole discretion to:  (i) designate non-employee directors eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan; (ii) interpret the provisions of the 2005 Plan; (iii) supervise the
administration and operation of the 2005 Plan; and (iv) adopt rules and procedures governing the 2005 Plan.
 
8.2
Investments.
                              
 
The Benefits Investment Committee of the Company shall have the sole discretion to choose the Investment Options available under the 2005 Plan and to change or eliminate such Investment Options, from time to time, as it deems appropriate.
 
8.3
Agents.
                              
 
The Committee may delegate its administrative duties under the 2005 Plan to one or more individuals, who may or may not be employees of the Company.
 
8.4
Binding Effect of Decisions.
                              
 
Any decision or action of the Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the eligibility, participation, administration, interpretation, and application of the 2005 Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the 2005 Plan.
 
8.5
Indemnification of Committees.
                              
 
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and the Benefits Investment Committee and their duly appointed agents under Section 8.3 against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, or liabilities arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the 2005 Plan, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member or agent of the Committee or Benefits Investment Committee.
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
9.1
Amendment.
                              
 
The Company (or its delegate) may at any time, or from time to time, modify or amend any or all of the provisions of the 2005 Plan.  Where the action is to be taken by the Company, it shall be accomplished by written action of the Board at a meeting duly called at which a quorum is present and acting throughout.  Where the action is to be taken by a delegate of the Company, it shall be accomplished pursuant to any procedures established in the instrument delegating the authority.  Regardless of whether the action is taken by the Company or its delegate, no such modification or amendment shall have the effect of reducing the value of any Participant's Account under the 2005 Plan as it existed as of the day before the effective date of such modification or amendment, without such Participant's prior written consent.  Written notice of any modification or amendment to the 2005 Plan shall be provided to each Participant under the 2005 Plan.
 
9.2
Termination.
                              
 
The Company, in its sole discretion, may terminate this 2005 Plan at any time and for any reason whatsoever by written action of the Board at a meeting duly called at which a quorum is present and acting throughout; provided that such termination shall not have the effect of reducing the value of any Participant's Account under the 2005 Plan as it existed on the day before the effective date of the termination of the 2005 Plan without such Participant's prior written consent.  The Valuation Date for purposes of determining the value of Participants' Accounts upon termination of the 2005 Plan shall be the date prior to the date of the termination of the 2005 Plan.
MISCELLANEOUS
 
10.1
Funding.
                       
 
The Company's obligation to pay benefits under the 2005 Plan shall be merely an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to pay money in the future.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.2, prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company, in its sole discretion, may elect to make contributions to an Irrevocable Trust to assist the Company in satisfying all or any portion of its obligations under the 2005 Plan.  Regardless of whether the Company elects to or otherwise contributes to an Irrevocable Trust, 2005 Plan Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors and assigns, shall have no secured interest or right, title or claim in any property or assets of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of an event resulting in a Change in Control, the Company shall make a contribution to an Irrevocable Trust in an amount which, when added to the then value of any amounts previously contributed to an Irrevocable Trust to assist the Company in satisfying all or any portion of its obligations under the 2005 Plan, shall be sufficient to bring the total value of assets held in the Irrevocable Trust to an amount not less than the total value of all Participants' Accounts under the 2005 Plan as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Change in Control; provided that any such funds contributed to an Irrevocable Trust pursuant to this Section 10.1 shall remain subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors and provided, further, that such contribution shall reflect any Conversion Event described in Section 4.3.  Upon the occurrence of the Change in Control of the Company, all deferrals to the 2005 Plan shall cease, any adjustments required by Section 4.3 shall be made and the Company shall provide to the trustee of the Irrevocable Trust all 2005 Plan records and other information necessary for the trustee to make payments to Participants under the 2005 Plan in accordance with the terms of the 2005 Plan.
10.2
Nonassignability.
                       
 
No right or interest of a Participant or Beneficiary under the 2005 Plan may be assigned, transferred, or subjected to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any such Participant or Beneficiary, or any other person.
 
10.3
Legal Fees and Expenses.
                       
 
It is the intent of the Company that no Participant be required to incur the expenses associated with the enforcement of his or her rights under this 2005 Plan by litigation or other legal action because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to the Participant hereunder.  Accordingly, if after a Change in Control it should appear that the Company has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this 2005 Plan, or in the event that the Company or any other person takes any action to declare this 2005 Plan void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation designed to deny, or to recover from, the Participant the benefits intended to be provided to such Participant hereunder, the Company irrevocably authorizes such Participant to retain counsel of his or her choice, at the expense of the Company as hereafter provided, to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any director, officer, stockholder or other person affiliated with the Company in any jurisdiction.  The Company shall pay and be solely responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses incurred by such Participant as a result of the Company's failure to perform under this 2005 Plan or any provision thereof; or as a result of the Company or any person contesting the validity or enforceability of this 2005 Plan or any provision thereof.
10.4
No Acceleration of Benefits.
                       
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, there shall be no acceleration of the time or schedule of any payments under the 2005 Plan, except as may be provided in regulations under Section 409(A) of the Code.
 
10.5
Captions.
                       
 
The captions contained herein are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction hereof.
 
10.6
Governing Law.
                       
 
The provisions of the 2005 Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
10.7
Successors.
                       
 
The provisions of the 2005 Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns.  The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company or a participating affiliate and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
 
10.8
No Right to Continued Service.
                       
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to confer upon any Participant the right to continue to serve as a member of the Board or in any other capacity.


