FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20070726071327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)         
July
26, 2007
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code   
(412) 553-5700
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.
         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Today, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") issued a press release announcing its 2007 second quarter earnings.  A copy of Equitable's press release is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Equitable provides certain segment related financial and operating information as additional information for its operating results in the press release.  Equitable's management believes that the presentation of this segment information provides useful information to management and investors regarding the financial condition, operations and trends of each of Equitable's segments without being obscured by the financial condition, operations and trends for the other segments, or by the effects of corporate allocations of interest and income taxes.  In addition, management uses these measures for budget planning purposes.
Item 9.01.
         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
99.1  Press release dated July 26, 2007 issued by Equitable Resources, Inc.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 26, 2007
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:  Patrick Kane
(412) 553-7833
PITTSBURGH, July 26, 2007/ PRNewswire-FirstCall/  Equitable Resources, Inc. (NYSE: EQT) today announced second quarter 2007 earnings per diluted share of $0.87, compared with $0.36 reported in the second quarter 2006.  During the second quarter 2007, the Company recognized a $119.4 million pre-tax gain related to the .
agreements with Range Resources Corporation to jointly develop the Nora Field in southwestern Virginia
Quarterly Results by Business
Equitable Supply
Equitable Supply's operating income for the 2007 second quarter totaled $71.2 million, 9% higher than the $65.4 million earned in the same period last year.  Total operating revenues were $127.9 million, $8.6 million higher than the 2006 second quarter total of $119.3 million.  Production sales volumes increased by 0.3 Bcfe to 19.4 Bcfe as volumes from new wells more than offset normal declines and the 0.6 Bcfe from wells sold in the Nora transaction.  The average well-head sales price increased by 8% to $5.07 per Mcfe.
Gathering operating income was $7.9 million, $0.9 million lower than the second quarter 2006.  As a result of the gathering asset contribution to Nora Gathering, LLC, gathered volumes, gathering revenues and gathering-related expenses related to the Nora Field gathering activities are no longer included in Equitable Supply's operating results.  The Company reported Equity in Earnings of $0.6 million from its ownership in Nora Gathering, LLC.
Total operating expenses for the 2007 second quarter totaled $56.7 million compared to $53.9 million in the 2006 second quarter.  Higher depreciation, depletion and amortization, gathering and compression expense and production taxes account for most of the increase in operating expenses.  Partially offsetting the increases were a decrease in expenses due to the Nora Field transaction, lower selling, general and administrative expenses related to reserves established in the second quarter 2006 for the West Virginia royalty disputes and other legal expenses.
During the quarter, the Company drilled 157 gross operated wells, compared with 114 wells for the same period in 2006.  The Company is on track to drill 650 gross operated wells in 2007, including at least 70 horizontal wells, and reiterates its sales forecast of between 77 and 78 Bcfe this year.
Equitable Utilities
Equitable Utilities had operating income for the second quarter of $10.9 million compared to $13.9 million reported for the same period last year.  Net operating revenues increased to $48.4 million from $45.8 million in 2006, primarily due to higher weather-related Distribution net revenues partially offset by lower Marketing net revenues.
Total operating expenses for the quarter increased by $5.6 million from $31.9 million in 2006 to $37.5 million in 2007.  Operating expenses for the 2007 quarter included $4.3 million of costs associated with planning for the integration of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. while the Company continues to pursue the required regulatory approvals.  On July 3, 2007, the Company agreed not to exercise its termination right under the agreement to acquire Peoples and Hope prior to September 1, 2007.
Other Business
Horizontal Drilling
Since September 2006, the Company has drilled 30 horizontal wells.  The Company's engineering projections and cost estimates have been revised to incorporate experience to date.  A revised decline curve and summary economics are posted on the Company's website, reflecting an 8% reduction in estimated cost per well to $1.2 million, a 17% increase in the expected reserve recovery and a higher expected after-tax return of 17%, up from 15%.  Based on the encouraging results of the horizontal program, the Company decided in the second quarter to exclusively drill Kentucky shale wells horizontally.
Nora Field
On May 17, 2007, Equitable and Range Resources Corporation completed the majority of the transactions contemplated under agreements to jointly develop the Nora Field in southwestern Virginia.  The Company agreed to sell 81 Bcf of proved reserves and contribute its Nora gathering assets to a limited liability company, which is 50% owned by the Company.  Equitable recorded a gain of $147.8 million on the transaction and a loss of $28.4 million as the Company reduced its hedge position as a result of the sale.
Executive Performance Incentive Programs
The Company has an Executive Performance Incentive Program (EPIP) designed to align management's long-term incentive compensation to the absolute and relative returns earned by the Company's shareholders.  The expense of this program, which vests on December 31, 2008, varies based in part on changes in Equitable's stock price.  The EPIP expense for the quarter was $20.8 million, consistent with an increase in plan assumptions.
Hedging
The Company's hedge position declined by 7.3 Bcf in conjunction with the Nora Field transaction.  The approximate volumes and prices of Equitable's hedges for the last six months of 2007 through 2009 are:
 
 
* The above price is based on a conversion rate of 1.05 MMbtu/Mcf
**
July through December
Operating Income
The Company reports operating income by segment in this press release.  Both interest and income taxes are controlled on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis, and are not allocated to the segments.
2
The following table reconciles operating income by segment as reported in this press release to the consolidated operating income reported in the Company's financial statements:
 
The unallocated expenses are primarily due to executive compensation.  Other segment financial measures identified in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP on the attached operational and financial reports.
Equitable's teleconference with securities analysts, which begins at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time today, will be broadcast live via Equitable's website, http://www.eqt.com, and will be available for seven days.
Equitable Resources is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas supply, transmission and distribution.  For information, please visit Equitable's website, http://www.eqt.com.
Equitable Resources management speaks to investors from time to time.  Slides for these discussions will be available online via Equitable's website.  The slides are updated periodically.
Forward-Looking Statements
Disclosures in this press release contain forward-looking statements.  Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, including guidance regarding the Company's drilling programs and initiatives, infrastructure projects, production and sales volumes, marketing revenues and margins, executive compensation, capital expenditures, the pending acquisition of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. and the financing of that acquisition and the Company's move to a holding company structure.  A variety of factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements.  The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the Company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the Company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
3
 
Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's natural gas distribution and energy marketing business, and the volatility of gas and oil commodity prices, the interim statements for the three and six month periods are not indicative of results for a full year.
(A)
     
4
 
5
 
6


