FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20080701060107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
ITEM 1.01            
 
On June 30, 2008, the former Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Equitable"), entered into and completed an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Plan") under which Equitable reorganized into a holding company structure such that a newly formed Pennsylvania corporation, also named Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Registrant," "Company" or "New EQT"), became the publicly traded holding company of Equitable and its subsidiaries.  The primary purpose of this reorganization (this "Reorganization") was to separate Equitable's state-regulated distribution operations into a new subsidiary in order to better segregate its regulated and unregulated businesses and improve overall financing flexibility.  A copy of the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.24(a).
 
To effect the Reorganization, Equitable formed New EQT, a wholly-owned subsidiary, and New EQT, in turn, formed EGC Merger Co., a Pennsylvania corporation owned solely by New EQT ("MergerSub").  Under the Plan, MergerSub merged with and into Equitable with Equitable surviving (the "Merger").  The Merger resulted in Equitable becoming a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of New EQT.  By virtue of the Merger each share of Equitable common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger was exchanged for one share of common stock of New EQT having the same designations, rights and powers as the shares of Equitable's common stock.  Equitable accomplished the Merger pursuant to Section 1924(b)(4) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988 (the "BCL").  Section 1924(b)(4) of the BCL permits the Merger without a vote of shareholders of either constituent corporation and does not give rise to shareholder appraisal or dissenters' rights.
 
At the effective time of the Merger (the "Merger Effective Time"), New EQT assumed and agreed to perform all obligations of Equitable under its benefit plans in accordance with the Plan and pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.24(b).  In addition, the Plan provides that each outstanding option or other award under such plans is exercisable upon the same terms and conditions as under the plans immediately prior to the Merger, except that upon exercise of these options or awards, shares of New EQT common stock will be issued.
 
New EQT's outstanding shares, Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws are identical to those of Equitable prior to the Merger.  The Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of New EQT are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02, respectively.  In addition, New EQT has a board of directors and officers identical to those of Equitable immediately prior to the Merger.
 
Immediately following the Merger, Equitable distributed to New EQT all assets and liabilities owned by Equitable other than assets and liabilities of the Equitable Gas Company division, including the ownership interests in all of Equitable's Production and Midstream businesses and all corporate assets and liabilities (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").  The corporate assets and liabilities included, among other things, Equitable's medium and long term notes and debentures, its commercial paper program, its credit facility and its agreements with its directors and executive officers.  The Asset/Liability Transfer was affected through a Master Assignment, Assumption and Acknowledgement Agreement ("Assignment") between Equitable and New EQT, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.24(c).  The material contracts assumed pursuant to the Assignment are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.01(a) to 4.01(g), 4.02(a) to 4.02(f), 4.03(a) and 4.03(c) and 10.01(a) through 10.23(d).
 
Equitable maintained a commercial paper program, pursuant to which Equitable could issue up to $1.5 billion of commercial paper through certain commercial paper dealer agreements (the "Dealer Agreements").  Equitable has assigned the Dealer Agreements and all rights and obligations with respect to the commercial paper program to New EQT.
Following the Asset/Liability Transfer, Equitable was merged with and into a newly formed Pennsylvania limited liability company owned by New EQT, Equitable Gas Company, LLC.
 
New EQT and its subsidiaries continue to conduct the business and operations that Equitable and its subsidiaries conducted immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time.  The consolidated assets and liabilities of New EQT and its subsidiaries are identical to the consolidated assets and liabilities of Equitable and its subsidiaries immediately before the Merger Effective Time.
 
New EQT is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EQT", the same symbol as Equitable.  Equitable was removed from listing in connection with the listing of New EQT.
 
As a result of the Reorganization, New EQT became a successor issuer to Equitable pursuant to Rule 12g-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").  This Form 8-K is being filed by the Registrant as the initial report of the Registrant to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and as notice that the Registrant is the successor issuer to Equitable under Rule 12g-3 under the Exchange Act.  As a result, the Registrant's common stock is deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act in accordance with Rule 12g-3(e).  The Registrant is thereby subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and in accordance therewith will file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Commission.  The first periodic report to be filed by the Registrant with the Commission will be its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 302008.
,
 
New EQT will mail a letter to its shareholders describing the Reorganization, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Please also see Item 2.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 2.03             CREATION OF DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
 
Long and Medium Term Debt
 
Immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, Equitable had long-term debt obligations outstanding under the following instruments: (i) that certain Indenture dated as of July 1, 1996 between Equitable and The Bank of New York, as successor to Bank of Montreal Trust Company (the "1996 BONY Indenture"), (ii) that certain Indenture dated as of April 1, 1983 between Equitable and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, formerly Bankers Trust Company, as successor to Pittsburgh National Bank (the "Deutsche Bank Indenture"), and (iii) that certain Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 between Equitable and The Bank of New York (the "2008 BONY Indenture", and collectively with the 1996 BONY Indenture and Deutsche Bank Indenture, the "Indentures").
 
8.82% notes due September 1, 2009, $2.3 million principal amount of 8.75% notes due October 1, 2009, $1 million principal amount of 8.79% notes due November 11, 2011, $5 million principal amount of 8.48% notes due December 27, 2011, $5 million principal amount of 8.70% notes due December 1, 2014, $8 million principal amount of 8.88% notes due October 1, 2020, $3.2 million principal amount of 8.81% notes due October 1, 2020, $2 million principal amount of 8.99% notes due September 1, 2021, $5 million principal
Equitable had the following notes and/or debentures outstanding under the 1996 BONY Indenture immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time: $200 million principal amount of 5.15% notes due March 1, 2018, $200 million principal amount of 5.15% notes due November 15, 2012, $150 million principal amount of 5.00% notes due October 1, 2015, and $115 million principal amount of 7.75% debentures due July 15, 2026.  Equitable also had the following notes outstanding under the Deutsche Bank Indenture immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time: $2 million principal amount of
amount of 9.00% notes due September 1, 2021, $10 million principal amount of 8.98% notes due September 1, 2021, $7 million principal amount of 8.93% notes due October 1, 2021, $10 million principal amount of 7.30% notes due March 4, 2013, $10 million principal amount of 7.55% notes due October 1, 2015, $10 million principal amount of 7.42% notes due March 2, 2023, and $8 million principal amount of 7.60% notes due January 15, 2018.  Equitable also had $500 million principal amount of 6.50% Senior Notes due 2018 outstanding under the 2008 BONY Indenture immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time.
 
A supplemental indenture to the Indentures was entered into by New EQT and each of the trustees to evidence New EQT as successor to Equitable under those Indentures.  Such supplemental indentures are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.01(g), 4.02(f) and 4.03(c).
 
Credit Agreement
 
Immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, Equitable maintained a $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit agreement, dated October 27, 2006, among Equitable, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and a Letter of Credit Issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and a Letter of Credit Issuer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Houston Agency, Citibank, N.A., and PNC Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the other lender parties thereto (the "Credit Agreement").  Equitable, New EQT and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and a Letter of Credit Issuer, entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Amendment to Credit Agreement, pursuant to which (i) Equitable assigned to New EQT and New EQT assumed from Equitable all of Equitable's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, (ii) Equitable was released from further liability under the Credit Agreement and (iii) the Credit Agreement and each other loan document were amended to reflect New EQT as the borrower.  The Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Amendment to Credit Agreement are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.23(b).
 
ITEM 9.01             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Exhibits.
(d)
                                
 
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Each management contract and compensatory arrangement in which any director or any named executive officer participates has been marked with an asterisk (*).  On March 14, 2008,  Johanna G. O'Loughlin ceased being an executive officer of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
July 1, 2008
 
 
Each management contract and compensatory arrangement in which any director or any named executive officer participates has been marked with an asterisk (*).  On March 14, 2008,  Johanna G. O'Loughlin ceased being an executive officer of the Company.

Exhibit 3.01
 
:  The name of the Company is EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
First
 
:  The location and post office address of its current registered office in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is 225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212, County of Allegheny.
Second
 
:  The purposes for which the Company is incorporated under the Business Corporation Law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania are to engage in, and to do any lawful act concerning, any or all lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under said Business Corporation Law, including but not limited to:
Third
 
the supply of heat, light and power to the public by any means;
A.
               
 
the production, purchase, generation, manufacture, transmission, transportation, storage, distribution and supplying of natural or artificial gas, steam or air conditioning, electricity, or any combination thereof to or for the public; and
B.
                 
 
manufacturing, processing, owning, using and dealing in personal property of every class and description, engaging in research and development, the furnishing of services, and acquiring, owning, using and disposing of real property of every nature whatsoever.
C.
                 
 
:  The term of the Company's existence shall be perpetual.
Fourth
 
:  The aggregate number of shares which the Company shall have authority to issue shall be:
Fifth
 
3,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value; and
(a)
                           
 
320,000,000 shares of Common Stock, without par value.
(b)
                          
 
The designations, preferences, qualifications, limitations, restrictions, and the special or relative rights in respect of the Preferred Stock and of the Common Stock of the Company, and a statement of the authority hereby vested in the Board of Directors of the Company to fix and determine the designations, preferences, qualifications, limitations, restrictions, and special or relative rights in respect of all series of the Preferred Stock shall be as follows:
 
.  The Preferred Stock may be divided into and issued in series.  The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, at any time or from time to time, to divide any or all of the shares of the Preferred Stock into series, and in the resolution or resolutions establishing a particular series, before issuance of any of the shares thereof, to fix and determine the designation and the relative rights and preferences of the series so established, to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, including, but not limited to, the variations between different series in the following respects:
1.1
Preferred Stock
                    
 
the distinctive serial designation of such series;
(a)
              
 
the annual dividend rate for such series, and the date or dates from which dividends shall commence to accrue;
(b)
             
 
the redemption price or prices, if any, for shares of such series and the terms and conditions on which such shares may be redeemed;
(c)
              
 
 
the provisions for a sinking, purchase or similar fund, if any, for the redemption or purchase of shares of such series;
(d)
             
 
the preferential amount or amounts payable upon shares of such series in the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation of the Company;
(e)
              
 
the voting rights, if any, of shares of such series;
(f)
                
 
the terms and conditions, if any, upon which shares of such series may be converted and the class or classes or series of securities of the Company into which such shares may be converted;
(g)
             
 
the relative seniority, parity or junior rank of such series with respect to other series of Preferred Stock then or thereafter to be issued; and
(h)
             
 
such other terms, limitations and relative rights and preferences, if any, of shares of such series as the Board of Directors may, at the time of such resolutions, lawfully fix and determine under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(i)
                 
 
.  Except as provided in this Section 2.1, the holders of the Common Stock shall have exclusive voting rights for the election of Directors and for all other purposes and shall be entitled to one vote for each share held.
2.1
Voting Rights
                    
 
The holders of the Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as may be provided with respect to any particular series of the Preferred Stock by the Board of Directors pursuant to Subdivision 1.1 of Division A hereof.  On any matter on which the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote, they shall be entitled to vote as established by the Board of Directors pursuant to Subdivision 1.1 of Division A hereof.
 
In all elections for Directors, every stockholder entitled to vote shall have the right, in person or by proxy, to multiply the of votes to which such stockholder may be entitled by the number of Directors for the election of whom he is entitled to vote at such meeting, and such stockholder may cast the whole number of such votes for one candidate or may distribute them among any two or more candidates.  The candidates receiving the highest number of votes up to the number of Directors to be elected shall be elected.  The foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not be changed with respect to any class of stock unless the holders of record of not less than two-thirds of the number of shares of such class of stock then outstanding shall consent thereto in writing or by voting therefor in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders at which any such change is considered.
number
 
.  Upon any issue for money or other consideration of any stock of the Company that may be authorized from time to time, no holder of stock, irrespective of the kind of such stock, shall have any pre-emptive or other right to subscribe for, purchase, or receive any proportionate or other share of the stock so , but the Board of Directors may dispose of all or any portion of such stock as and when it may determine, free of any such rights, whether by offering the same to stockholders or by sale or other disposition as said Board may deem advisable; provided, however, that if the Board of Directors shall determine to offer any new or additional shares of Common Stock, or any security convertible into Common Stock, for money, other than (i) by a public offering of all of such shares or offering of all of such shares to or through underwriters or investment bankers who shall have agreed promptly to make a public offering of such shares, or (ii) pursuant to any employee compensation, incentive or other benefit program adopted by the Board of Directors, the same shall first be offered pro rata to the holders of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company at a price not less favorable than the price at which the Board of Directors issues and disposes of such stock or securities to other than such holders of Common Stock before deducting reasonable commissions or compensation that may be paid by the Company in connection with the sale of any such stock and securities; and provided, further, that the time within which such pre-emptive rights shall be exercised may be limited by the Board of Directors to
2.2
Pre-emptive Rights
                    
issued
such time as the said Board may deem proper, not less, however, than ten days after mailing of notice that such stock rights are available and may be exercised.  The foregoing provisions of this Subdivision 2.2 shall not be changed unless the holders of record of not less than two-thirds of the number of shares of the Common Stock then outstanding shall consent thereto in writing or by voting therefor in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders at which any such change is considered.
 
.  The Board of Directors may make, amend and repeal the By-Laws with respect to those matters which are not, by statute, reserved exclusively to the shareholders, subject always to the power of the to change such action as provided herein. No By-Law may be made, amended or repealed by the shareholders unless such action is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in an annual election of directors, voting together as a single class, unless such action has been previously approved by a two-thirds vote of the whole Board of Directors, in which event (unless otherwise expressly provided in the Articles or the By-Laws) the vote specified by applicable law for valid shareholder action shall be required.
2.3
Amendments to By-Laws
                    
shareholders
 
.  Subject to the voting rights given to any particular series of the Preferred Stock by the Board of Directors pursuant to Subdivision 1.1 of Division A hereof, and except as may be specifically provided to the contrary in any other provision in the Articles with respect to amendment or repeal of such , the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in an annual election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend the Articles of the Company or repeal any provision thereof, unless such action has been previously approved by a two-thirds vote of the whole Board of Directors, in which event (unless otherwise expressly provided in the Articles) such shareholder approval as may be specified by law shall be required.
2.4
Amendments to Articles
                    
provision
 
.  The Company may issue and dispose of any of its authorized shares for such consideration as may be by the Board of Directors subject to the laws then applicable and to the provisions of Subdivision 2.2 of this Division B.
2.5
General
                    
fixed
 
The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by a Board of Directors comprised as follows:
3.1
                    
 
The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than 5 nor more than 12 persons, the exact number to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the directors then in office.
(a)
              
 
Directors of the Company shall be classified with respect to the time for which they shall severally hold office by dividing them into three classes:  Class 1; Class 2; and Class 3, as nearly equal in number as possible.  At the special meeting of shareholders at which the amendment adding this Division C shall be adopted, the then current directors shall be assigned to the three classes in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors.  Class 1 directors shall not be elected at such special meeting but shall continue to hold office until the annual meeting of shareholders in 1984.  Class 2 directors shall be elected by shareholders at such special meeting to extended terms of office, to serve until the annual meeting in 1985.  Class 3 directors shall be elected by shareholders at such special meeting to extended terms of office, to serve until the annual meeting in 1986.  Each class of directors to be elected at such special meeting shall be elected in a separate election.  At each succeeding annual meeting of shareholders, the class of directors then being elected shall be elected to hold office for a term of three years.  Each director shall hold office for the term for which elected and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified.
(b)
             
 
Any director, any class of directors or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office by shareholder vote at any time, without assigning any cause, but only if shareholders entitled to
(c)
              
cast at least 80% of the votes which all shareholders would be entitled to cast at an annual election of directors or of such class of directors shall vote in favor of such removal; , that no individual director shall be removed without cause (unless the entire Board of Directors or any class of directors be removed) in case the votes cast against such removal would be sufficient, if voted cumulatively for such director, to elect him or her to the class of directors of which he or she is a member.
provided, however
 
Vacancies in the Board of Directors, including vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of directors, shall be filled only by a majority vote of the remaining directors then in office, though less than a quorum, except that vacancies resulting from removal from office by a vote of the shareholders may be filled by the shareholders at the same meeting at which such removal occurs.  All directors elected to fill vacancies shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders at which the term of the class to which they have been elected expires.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
(d)
             
 
Whenever the holders of any class or series of preferred stock shall have the right, voting separately as a class, to elect one or more directors of the Company, none of the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.1 shall apply with respect to the director or directors elected by such holders of preferred stock.
(e)
              
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Articles or the By-Laws of the Company, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital of the Company entitled to vote in an annual election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Division C, unless such action has been previously approved by a two-thirds vote of the whole Board of Directors.
3.2
                    
stock
 
No Director shall be personally liable for monetary damages as such (except to the extent otherwise by law) for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, unless such Director has breached or failed to perform the duties of his or her office under Title 42, Chapter 83, Subchapter F of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes (or any successor statute relating to Directors' standard of care and justifiable reliance); and the breach or failure to perform constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness.
3.3
                    
provided
 
If the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes are amended after May 22, 1987, the date this section received approval, to further eliminate or limit the personal liability of Directors, then a Director shall not be liable, in addition to the circumstances set forth in this section, to the fullest extent permitted by the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, as so amended.
shareholder
 
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any actions filed prior to January 27, 1987 nor to any breach of of duty, or any failure of performance of duty, by any Director occurring prior to January 27, 1987.
performance
 
Required.
4.1
Votes
                    
; Exceptions
 
The affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in an annual election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class, shall be required for the approval or authorization of any "Business Combination" (as hereinafter defined) involving a "Related Person" (as hereinafter defined); provided, however, that the 80% voting requirement shall not be applicable if:
(a)
              
The "Continuing Directors" (as hereinafter defined) of the Company by a two-thirds vote have expressly approved such Business Combination either in advance of or subsequent to such Related Person's having become a Related Person; or
(1)
          
 
both the following conditions are satisfied:
(2)
          
 
the aggregate amount of the cash and the "Fair Market Value" (as hereinafter defined) of the property, securities and "Other Consideration" (as hereinafter defined) to be received per share by holders of capital stock of the Company in the Business Combination, other than the Related Person, is not less than the "Highest Equivalent Price" (as hereinafter defined) of such shares of capital stock; and
(A)
    
 
a proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether or not the Company is then subject to such requirements, shall have been mailed to all shareholders of the Company.  The proxy or information statement shall contain at the front thereof, in a prominent place, the position of the Continuing Directors as to the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Business Combination and, if deemed advisable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, the opinion of an investment banking firm selected by the Continuing Directors as to the fairness of the terms of the Business Combination, from the point of view of the holders of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company other than any Related Person.
(B)
      
 
Such 80% vote shall in any such instance be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required or that a lesser percentage may be specified by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
(b)
             
 
.  For purposes of this Division D:
4.2
Definitions
                    
 
A "Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity.  As used herein, the pronouns "which" and "it" in relation to Persons which are individuals shall be construed to mean "who" or "whom", "he" or "she", and "him" or "her", as appropriate.
(a)
              
 
The terms "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on November 10, 1983 (the term "registrant" in said Rule 12b-2 meaning in this case the Company).
(b)
             
 
The term "Beneficial Owner" (and variations thereof) shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on November 10, 1983; provided, however, that notwithstanding any provision of Rule 13d-3 to the contrary, an entity shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any share of capital stock of the Company that such entity has the right to acquire at any time pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
(c)
              
 
The term "Voting Stock" shall have the meaning set forth at the beginning of Section 4.1(a) of this Division D.
(d)
             
 
The term "Subsidiary" of any Person shall mean any corporation of which a majority of the capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors is Beneficially Owned by such Person directly or indirectly though other Subsidiaries of such Person.
(e)
              
 
The term "Substantial Part" of the assets of any person shall mean more than 10% of the Fair Market Value, as determined by a two-thirds vote of the Continuing Directors, of the total consolidated assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries as of the end of its most recent fiscal year ended prior to the time the determination is being made.
(f)
                
 
The term "Other Consideration" shall include, without limitation, shares of Common Stock or other capital stock of the Company retained by the holders of such shares in the event of a Business Combination in which the Company is the surviving corporation.
(g)
             
 
The term "Continuing Director" shall mean a director of the Company who is unaffiliated with any Related Person and either (1) was a director of the Company immediately prior to the time the Related Person involved in a Business Combination became a Related Person or (2) is a successor to a Continuing Director and is recommended to succeed a continuing Director by a majority of the then Continuing Directors.  Where this Division D contains provisions for a determination, recommendation or approval by the Continuing Directors, if there is at any particular relevant time no Continuing Director in office, then such provision shall be deemed to be satisfied if the Board, by a two-thirds vote of the whole Board of Directors, makes or gives such determination, recommendation or approval.
(h)
             
 
The term "Business Combination" shall mean
(i)
                 
 
any merger, consolidation or share exchange of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company with a Related Person, in each case without regard to which entity is the surviving entity;
(1)
          
 
any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition, including without limitation a mortgage or any other security device, of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of the Company (including without limitation any voting securities of a Subsidiary of the Company) or a Subsidiary of the Company to or with a Related Person (whether in one transaction or series of transactions), or of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of a Related Person to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company;
(2)
          
 
the issuance, transfer or delivery of any securities of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to a Related Person, or of any securities of a Related Person to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company (other than an issuance or transfer of securities which is effected on a pro rata basis to all shareholders of the Company or of the Related Person, as the case may be);
(3)
          
 
any recapitalization, reorganization or reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split) or other transaction that would have the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the voting power of a Related Person;
(4)
          
 
the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company proposed by or on behalf of a Related Person; or
(5)
          
 
any agreement, plan, contract or other arrangement providing for any of the transactions described in this definition of Business Combination.
(6)
          
 
The term "Related Person" at any particular time shall mean any Person if such Person, its Affiliates, its Associates, and all Persons of which it is an Affiliate or Associate Beneficially Own in the aggregate 10% or more of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, and any Affiliate or Associate of any such Person, and any Person of which such Person is an Affiliate or Associate.  With respect to any particular Business Combination, the term "Related Person" means the Related Person involved in such Business Combination, any Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person, and any Person of which such Related Person is an Affiliate or Associate. Where in this Division D any reference is made to a transaction involving, or ownership of securities by, a Related Person, it shall mean and include one or more transactions involving different Persons all included within the definition of "Related Person", or ownership of securities by any or all of such Persons.  Each Person who is an Affiliate or Associate of a Related Person shall be deemed to have become a Related Person at the earliest time any of such Persons becomes a Related Person.
(j)
                 
 
The term "highest Equivalent Price" with respect to shares of capital stock of the Company of any class or series shall mean the following:
(k)
              
 
with respect to shares of Common Stock, the highest price that can be determined to have been paid at any time by a Related Person for any shares of Common Stock; and
(1)
          
 
with respect to any class or series of shares of capital stock other than Common Stock, the higher of the following:
(2)
          
 
if any shares of such class or series are Beneficially Owned by a Related Person, the highest price that can be determined to have been paid at any time by a Related Person for such shares; or
(A)
    
 
the amount determined by the Continuing Directors, on whatever basis they believe is appropriate, to be the per share price equivalent of the highest price that can be determined to have been paid at any time by a Related Person for any shares of any other class or series of capital stock of the Company.
(B)
      
 
In determining the Highest Equivalent Price, all purchases by a Related Person shall be taken into account regardless of whether the shares were purchased before or after the Related Person became a Related Person.  Also, the Highest Equivalent Price shall include any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes, soliciting dealers' fees and other expenses paid by the Related Person with respect to the shares of capital stock of the Company acquired by the Related Person.  In the case of any Business Combination with a Related Person, the Continuing Directors by a two-thirds vote shall determine the Highest Equivalent Price for each class and series of capital stock of the Company.
 
The term "Fair Market Value" shall mean (1) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the New York Stock Exchange's consolidated transaction reporting system, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Continuing Directors; and (2) in the case of property other than stock or cash, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by a two-thirds vote of the Continuing Directors.
(l)
                 
 
.
4.3
Miscellaneous
                    
 
The Continuing Directors, by a two-thirds vote, are authorized to determine for purposes of this Division D on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry:  (1) whether a Person is a Related Person, (2) the number of shares of Voting Stock Beneficially Owned by any Person, (3) whether a Person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (4) whether certain assets constitute a Substantial Part of the assets of any Person, (5) the amounts of prices paid, market prices, and other factors relative to fixing the Highest Equivalent Price of shares of capital stock of the Company and (6) the Fair Market Value of property, securities and Other Consideration received in a Business Combination.  Any such determination made in good faith shall be binding and conclusive on all parties.
(a)
              
 
Nothing contained in this Division D shall be construed to relieve any Related Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
(b)
             
 
The fact that any Business Combination complies with the conditions set forth in Subsection (a)(2) of Section 4.1 of this Division D shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the shareholders of the Company, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
(c)
              
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Articles or the By-Laws of the Company, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Division D.
(d)
             
 
:  Henceforth, these Articles of the Company shall not include any prior documents.
Sixth
 

Exhibit 3.02
 
               All meetings of the shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Company or such other places, either within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 1.01
 
               An annual meeting of shareholders shall be held in each calendar year at such time and place as the Board of Directors shall determine.  If the annual meeting shall not be called and held during such calendar year, any shareholder may call such meeting at any time thereafter.
Section 1.02
 
               At each such annual meeting, the class of Directors then being elected shall be elected to hold office for a term of three (3) years, and until their successors shall have been elected and qualified.  All elections of Directors shall be conducted by three (3) Judges of Election, who need not be shareholders, appointed by the Board of Directors.  If any such appointees are not present, the vacancy shall be filled by the presiding officer of the meeting.  The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall preside and the Secretary shall take the minutes at all meetings of the shareholders.  In the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside.  In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee or such other presiding officer as may be designated by the Board of Directors or, if not
Section 1.03
so designated, by the shareholders of the Company, and if the Secretary is unable to do so, the presiding officer shall designate any person to take the minutes of the meeting.
 
               The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shareholders shall constitute a quorum except as otherwise provided by law or by the Restated Articles of the Company.  If a meeting is not organized because a quorum is not present, the shareholders present may adjourn the meeting to such time and place as they may determine, except that any meeting at which Directors are to be elected shall be adjourned only from day to day, or for such longer periods not exceeding fifteen (15) days each, as may be directed by a majority of the voting stock present.
Section 1.04
 
               Shareholders entitled to vote on any matter shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of capital stock standing in their respective names upon the books of the Company to be voted by the shareholder in person or by his or her duly authorized proxy or attorney.  The validity of every unrevoked proxy shall cease eleven (11) months after the date of its execution unless some other definite period of validity shall be expressly provided therein, but in no event shall a proxy, unless coupled with an interest, be voted on after three (3) years from the date of its execution.  All questions shall be decided by the vote of shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes which all shareholders present and voting (excluding abstentions) are entitled to cast on the matter, unless otherwise expressly provided by law or by the Restated Articles of the Company.
Section 1.05
 
               Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 1.06
 
               Notice of the annual meeting and of all special meetings of shareholders shall be given by sending a written or printed notice thereof by mail, specifying the
Section 1.07
place, day, and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting of shareholders, the general nature of the business to be transacted, to each shareholder at the address appearing on the books of the Company, or the address supplied by such shareholder to the Company for the purpose of notice, at least five (5) days before the day named for the meeting, unless such shareholders shall waive notice or be in attendance at the meeting.
 
               At any annual meeting or special meeting of shareholders, only such business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 1.08 may be transacted.  To be properly brought before any meeting, any proposed business must be either (i) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) if brought before the meeting by a shareholder, then (a) the shareholder must have been a shareholder of record on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, and (b) written notice of such proposed business must have been delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary, and received not less than 90 days or more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the previous year's annual meeting; provided, however, that if the Company changes the date of its annual meeting by more than 30 days from the anniversary date of the prior year's annual meeting, then such proposal shall have been received on or before the later of (x) during the period commencing 120 days and ending 90 days before the date of the annual meeting or (y) the close of business on the 10 day following the earlier of the date on which the Company gave notice of or publicly disclosed the date of the meeting.  Such notice shall set forth the nature of and reasons for the proposal in reasonable detail and, as to the shareholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books of such shareholder
Section 1.08
th
 
and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Company which are beneficially owned by such shareholder.
 
               The principal office of the Company shall be in the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and shall be kept open during business hours every day except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 2.01
 
               The Company shall have a corporate seal which shall contain within a circle the following words:  "Equitable Resources, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania" and in an inner circle the words "Corporate Seal."
Section 2.02
 
               The fiscal year of the Company shall begin with January 1 and end with December 31 of the same calendar year.
Section 2.03
 
               The Board of Directors shall fix a time, not more than seventy (70) days prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date fixed for the payment of any dividend or distribution, or the date for any allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares will be made or go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or distribution, or to receive any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion, or exchange of shares.
Section 2.04
               Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at least six (6) times each year, immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders and at such other times and places as the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate by resolution of the Board.  Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board held at the times and places fixed by resolution of the Board.
Section 3.01
 
If the Board shall fail to designate the specific time and place of any regular meeting, such regular meeting shall be held at such time and place as designated by the Chief Executive Officer and, in such case, oral, telegraphic or written notice shall be duly served or sent or mailed by the Secretary to each Director not less than five (5) days before the meeting.
 
               Special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chief Executive Officer, or the President in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, at such time and place as he may deem necessary, or by the Secretary at the request of any two (2) members of the Board, by oral, telegraphic or written notice duly served or sent or mailed to each Director not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting.
Section 3.02
 
               Fifty percent (50%) of the Directors at the time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Vacancies in the Board of Directors, including vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of Directors, shall be filled only by a majority vote of the remaining Directors then in office, though less than a quorum, except that vacancies resulting from removal from office by a vote of the shareholders may be filled by the shareholders at the same meeting at which such removal occurs.  All Directors elected to fill vacancies shall hold
Section 3.03
office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders at which the term of the class to which they have been elected expires.
 
               One (1) or more Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board or of a committee of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and all Directors so participating shall be deemed present at the meeting.
Section 3.04
 
               The full Board of Directors shall consist of not less than five (5) nor more than twelve (12) persons, the exact number to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the Directors then in office.
Section 3.05
 
               The Board of Directors may elect one (1) of its members as its Chairman and one (1) of its members Vice Chairman.  Such persons may also be officers of the Company.  If the Chairman so elected is not also the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, he or she shall confer with the Chief Executive Officer as to the content of agendas for such meetings and shall consult with the Chief Executive Officer as to matters affecting or relating to the Board of Directors.  The Chairman and the Vice Chairman so elected shall serve until the first meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of the shareholders.  The Board shall also fix the annual rate of compensation to be paid to the Chairman and the Vice Chairman for serving as such in addition to compensation paid to all non-officer members of the Board.  The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board, preserve order, and regulate debate according to the usual parliamentary rules.  In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall be the presiding officer.
Section 3.06
 
               Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors.  Nomination for election to the Board of
Section 3.07
Directors of the Company at a meeting of shareholders may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.07.  Such nominations, other than those made by or on behalf of the Board of Directors, shall be made by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary, and received not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the previous year's annual meeting; provided, however, that if the Company changes the date of its annual meeting by more than 30 days from the anniversary date of the prior years' annual meeting, then such proposal shall have been received on or before the later of (x) during the period commencing 120 days and ending 90 days before the date of the annual meeting of (y) the close of business on the 10 day following the earlier of the date on which the Company gave notice of or publicly disclosed the date of the meeting.  Such notice shall set forth (a) as to each proposed nominee (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of each such nominee, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of each such nominee, (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Company which are beneficially owned by each such nominee, and (iv) any other information concerning the nominee that must be disclosed as to nominees in proxy solicitations pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including such person's written consent to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected); and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of such shareholder, (ii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Company which are beneficially owned by such shareholder, (iii) the length of time such shareholder has held such shares, and (iv) any other information concerning such shareholder as may be appropriate for the purpose of complying with Regulation 14A under the
th
Securities Act of 1934, as amended.  Such notice shall also contain original irrevocable conditional resignations signed by each proposed nominee to be effective upon the conditions set forth in Section 3.10(a) of these By-Laws.  The Company may require any proposed nominee or such shareholder to furnish such other information as may reasonably be requested by the Company to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Company.
 
The Chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
               No Director of this Company shall be permitted to serve in that capacity after the date of the annual meeting of shareholders next following his or her seventy-fourth (74th) birthday.  In order for any officer to become a nominee for election by the shareholders as a Director of the Company, such officer must have submitted to the Board of Directors prior to the time of such officer's nomination an irrevocable resignation from the Board to take effect upon the termination of his employment as an officer of the Company, which resignation the Board shall have the discretion to determine whether to accept or reject, without the participation of the Director whose resignation is under consideration.
Section 3.08
 
               No Director shall be personally liable for monetary damages as such (except to the extent otherwise provided by law) for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, unless such Director has breached or failed to perform the duties of his or her office under Title 42, Chapter 83, Subchapter F of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes (or any successor
Section 3.09
statute relating to Directors' standard of care and justifiable reliance); and the breach or failure to perform constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness.
 
If the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes are amended after May 22, 1987, the date this section received shareholder approval, to further eliminate or limit the personal liability of Directors, then a Director shall not be liable, in addition to the circumstances set forth in this section, to the fullest extent permitted by the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, as so amended.
 
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any actions filed prior to January 27, 1987, nor to any breach of performance of duty, or any failure of performance of duty, by any Director occurring prior to January 27, 1987.
 
           (a) In order for any person to become a nominee for election by shareholders as a Director of the Company, such person must have submitted to the Board of Directors prior to the time of such person's nomination an irrevocable conditional resignation from the Board, to take effect upon the occurrence of all of the following conditions:  () such person having been elected a director in the upcoming election, where the number of nominees did not exceed the number of directors to be elected; () such person having received a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election; and () such resignation having been accepted by the Board.   Not later than 90 days after the certification of an election by shareholders satisfying clauses (i) and (ii)  the Board of Directors will decide, after receipt of a recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, whether to accept such conditional resignation.
Section 3.10
i
ii
iii
 
(b)  Any determination by the Board of Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee under subsection (a) shall be made without the participation of any Director whose resignation is under consideration with respect to the election.  If there are not sufficient
 
unaffected members of the Corporate Governance Committee to form a quorum, the unaffected independent Directors shall name a committee made up solely of unaffected independent Directors to make recommendations to the Board as to the acceptance of tendered resignation(s).  If the number of unaffected independent Directors is three or fewer, all Directors may participate, with or without the naming of such committee as the Directors may deem appropriate, in the decision as to whether to accept the tendered resignations.
 
(c)  In considering the question of whether to accept a Director nominee's resignation, the Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors shall be entitled to consider such facts and circumstances as deemed appropriate, including (i) whether the concerns raised by shareholders that led to the withhold votes can or should be cured, (ii) whether resignation of the nominee is an appropriate response to the concerns raised by the shareholders, (iii) the Director nominee's historical and anticipated future commitment and contribution to the Board, (iv) whether the Director's service on the Board of Directors is consistent with applicable regulatory requirements and listing standards, and without limitation (v) other matters in the interests of the Company.  The Board of Directors' explanation of its decision shall be promptly disclosed on Form 8-K furnished to or filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
               Directors and officers of the Company shall be indemnified as of right to the fullest extent not prohibited by law in connection with any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other (whether brought by or in the right of the Company or otherwise) arising out of their service to the Company or to another
Section 4.01
enterprise at the request of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall not indemnify any Director or officer in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such Director or officer (other than a proceeding to enforce such person's rights to indemnification under this Article) unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board.
 
               Employees of the Company who are not Directors or officers of the Company shall be indemnified as of right in connection with any actual or threatened action, suit or proceeding, civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other (whether brought by or in the right of the Company or otherwise) arising out of their service to the Company or to another enterprise at the request of the Company if, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion, such employee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful; provided, however, that the Company shall not indemnify an employee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such employee (other than a proceeding to enforce such person's rights to indemnification under this Article)  unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board.
Section 4.02
 
               The Company may indemnify agents of the Company who are not Directors, officers or employees of the Company with such scope and effect as determined by the Company.
Section 4.03
 
               As soon as practicable after receipt by any person entitled to indemnification hereunder of actual knowledge of any action, suit or proceeding, such indemnified person shall notify the Company thereof if a claim for indemnification in respect thereof may be or is being made by such indemnified person against the Company under this Article.  With respect to any such action, suit or proceeding, the Company will be entitled to participate therein at its own
Section 4.04
expense and may assume the defense thereof.  After the Company notifies the indemnified person of its election to so assume the defense, the Company will not be liable to the indemnified person under this Article for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the indemnified person in connection with the defense. The Company shall not be obligated to indemnify an indemnified person under this Article for any amounts paid in settlement of any action or claim effected without its written consent.
 
               The Company may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Director, officer, agent or employee against any liability asserted against and incurred by him or her in respect of such service, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability by law or under the provisions of this Article.  The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to persons who have ceased to be Directors, officers, agents, and employees and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of persons entitled to indemnity hereunder.
Section 4.05
 
Indemnification under this Article shall include the right to be paid expenses incurred in advance of the final disposition of any action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is provided, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnified person to repay such amount if it ultimately shall be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company; provided, however, that the indemnified person shall reimburse the Company for any amounts paid by the Company as indemnification of expenses to the extent the indemnified person receives payment for the same expenses from any insurance carrier or from another party.  The indemnification rights granted herein are not intended to be exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled and the Company may enter into contractual agreements with any Director, officer, agent or employee to provide such individual
 
with indemnification rights as set forth in such agreement or agreements, which rights shall be in addition to the rights set forth in this section.
 
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to actions, suits or proceedings commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after the adoption hereof.
 
               The Board of Directors shall have authority to appoint an Executive Committee, a Finance Committee, an Audit Committee, and such other committees as it deems advisable, each to consist of two (2) or more Directors, and from time to time to define the duties and fix the number of members of each committee.  In the absence or disqualification of any member of any such committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another Director or Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member or members.
Section 5.01
 
               The principal officers of the Company shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer.  The Board of Directors may also choose such other officers, including one (1) or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents, one (1) or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and one (1) or more persons having such other titles, as it may determine.
Section 6.01
 
               The Board of Directors shall, at the first meeting of the Board after its election, elect the principal officers of the Company, and may elect additional officers at that or any subsequent meeting.  All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board.
Section 6.02
 
               At the discretion of the Board of Directors, any two (2) of the offices mentioned in Section 6.01 hereof may be held by the same person except the offices of Chief Executive Officer and Secretary.
Section 6.03
 
               The salaries of all officers of the Company, other than Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.04
 
               The officers of the Company shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board and until their successors are chosen and qualify in their stead or until their earlier resignation or removal.  Any officer or agent may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Company will be served thereby.  Such removal, however, shall be without prejudice to the contract rights of the person so removed.  If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.05
 
               The Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders; shall have general and active management of the business of the Company; and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect.  In addition to any specific powers conferred upon the Chief Executive Officer by these By-Laws, he or she shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred upon or assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.06
 
               The President shall have such duties and powers as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and shall also be the Chief Operating Officer of the Company.  During the absence or inability of the Chief Executive Officer to serve, the President shall have all the powers and perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, including presiding at all meetings of the shareholders.
Section 6.07
 
               The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors; shall record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose; and shall perform like duties for all committees of the Board, if so designated by the Board.  The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Company and when authorized by the Board of Directors, affix the seal of the Company to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, it shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of the Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary.  The Secretary shall have custody of all contracts, leases, assignments, and all other valuable instruments unless the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall otherwise direct.  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all annual meetings of the shareholders and any other meetings of the shareholders and, when required, notice of the meetings of the Board of Directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of a secretary of a corporation, and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 6.08
 
               The Board of Directors may elect one (1) or more Assistant Secretaries who shall perform the duties of the Secretary in the event of the Secretary's absence or
Section 6.09
 
inability to act, as well as such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary may from time to time designate.
               The Treasurer shall have charge of all moneys and securities belonging to the Company subject to the direction and control of the Board of Directors.  The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys received by the Company in the name and to the credit of the Company in such bank or other place or places of deposit as the Board of Directors shall designate; and for that purpose the Treasurer shall have power to endorse for collection or payment all checks or other negotiable instruments drawn payable to the Treasurer's order or to the order of the Company.  The Treasurer shall disburse the moneys of the Company upon properly drawn checks which shall bear the signature of the Treasurer or of any Assistant Treasurer or of the Cashier (who shall be appointed by the Assistant Treasurer with the approval of the Treasurer).  All checks shall be covered by vouchers which shall be certified by the Controller or the Auditor of Disbursements or such other employee of the Company (other than the Cashier) as may be designated by the Treasurer from time to time.  The Treasurer may create, from time to time, such special imprest funds as may, in the Treasurer's discretion, be deemed advisable and necessary, and may open accounts with such bank or banks as may be deemed advisable for the deposit therein of such special imprest funds, and may authorize disbursements therefrom by checks drawn against such accounts by the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, or such other employee of the Company as may be designated by the Treasurer from time to time.  The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 6.10
 
               No notes or similar obligations shall be made except jointly by the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, except as otherwise authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.11
 
               The Board of Directors may elect one (1) or more Assistant Treasurers who shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the event of the Treasurer's absence or inability to act, as well as such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may from time to time designate.
Section 6.12
 
               Vice Presidents and other officers shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer as their positions are established or changed.
Section 6.12
 
               Fidelity bond coverage shall be obtained on such officers and employees of the Company, and of such type and in such amounts as may, in the discretion of the Board of Directors, be deemed proper and advisable.
Section 6.14
CERTIFICATED AND UNCERTIFICATED SHARES
 
Section 7.01
               All classes and series of shares of capital stock of the Company, or any part thereof, shall be represented by stock certificates or shall be uncertificated shares, as determined by the Board of Directors, provided, that every shareholder shall be entitled to a share certificate if he or she so requests in the manner prescribed by the Company.
 
(a)  Shares of capital stock of the Company represented by certificates shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and countersigned by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and sealed with the corporate seal of the Company.  Said certificates shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
 
(b)  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Company shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information otherwise required to be set forth or stated on a stock certificate.
 
Section 7.02
               The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint an incorporated company or companies to act as Transfer Agent and Registrar of shares of the Company, and in the case of the appointment of such Transfer Agent, the officers of the Company may sign and seal stock certificates in blank and place them with the transfer books in the custody and control of such Transfer Agent.  If any stock certificate is signed by a Transfer Agent or Registrar, the signature of any such officer and the corporate seal upon any such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved or printed.
Section 7.03
               New certificates for shares of stock may be issued to replace certificates lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated upon such terms and conditions as the Board may from time to time determine.
 
               (a)  The Board of Directors may make, amend, and repeal the By-Laws with respect to those matters which are not, by statute, reserved exclusively to the shareholders, subject always to the power of the shareholders to change such action as provided herein.  No By-Law may be made, amended or repealed by the shareholders unless such action is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in an annual election of Directors, voting together as a single class, unless such action has been previously approved by a two-thirds vote of the whole Board of Directors, in which event (unless otherwise expressly provided in the Articles or the By-Laws) the vote specified by applicable law for valid shareholder action shall be required.
Section 8.01
 
(b)  Unless otherwise provided by a By-Law, by the Restated Articles or by law, any By-Law may be amended, altered or repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, by vote of a majority of the Directors present at any regular or special meeting duly convened, but only if notice of the specific sections to be amended, altered, repealed or added is included in the notice of meeting.  No provision of the By-Laws shall vest any property or contract right in any shareholder.
               Subchapter G  Control Share Acquisitions and Subchapter H  Disgorgement by Certain Controlling Shareholders Following Attempts to Acquire Control of Title 15, Chapter 25, of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, shall not be applicable to the Company.
Section 9.01

Exhibit 4.01(g)
This Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
June 30, 2008
, among Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company"), having its principal executive office at
225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212, Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation formed on June 10, 2008 and duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called "New EQT") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, formerly known as Bankers Trust Company, successor to Pittsburgh National Bank, a New York banking corporation (herein called the "Trustee") under the Indenture dated as of April 1, 1983 (the "Indenture") from the Company.
 
WHEREAS, Section 901(1) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time may enter into one or more supplemental indentures for the purpose of evidencing the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 801 of the Indenture, the Company may convey, lease or otherwise dispose of its property substantially as an entirety to any other corporation authorized to acquire the same; provided, among other things, that such Person shall expressly assume, by a supplemental indenture executed and delivered to the Trustee and in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has transferred to New EQT all of Equitable's Production and Midstream businesses and all corporate assets and liabilities;
 
WHEREAS, New EQT will assume all the rights and obligations of, and succeed to and be substituted for, the Company under the Indenture and the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, to evidence the assumption of the obligations under the Indenture and the Securities by New EQT and the release of the Company from its liabilities and obligations under or with respect to the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with Sections 801 and 802 of the Indenture, New EQT has agreed to execute and deliver this Second Supplemental Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the following series of Securities have been created prior to the execution hereof: 
8.48% to 9.00% Medium Term Notes Series A, due 2006 thru 2021; 7.30% to 7.55% Medium Term Notes Series B, due 2013 thru 2023; 6.78% to 7.60% Medium Term Notes Series C, due 2007 thru 2018;
 
WHEREAS, the execution of this Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel meeting the requirements of Section 803 of the Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have received a direction to enter into this Second Supplemental Indenture from the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of each series;
 
For and in consideration of the premises, and intending to be legally bound hereby, mutually covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
 
SECTION 101. Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.  New EQT hereby fully and unconditionally assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium if any), and interest on the Notes and the performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by
the Company.
 
SECTION 201. .  For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Terms Defined
 
SECTION 202. .  Upon the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be supplemented in accordance herewith, and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby. In accordance with Section 802 of the Indenture, upon the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, New EQT shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the party of the first part and the Company shall be released and relieved in accordance with Section 802 of the Indenture.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture
 
SECTION 203. Supplemental.  This Second Supplemental Indenture is an indenture supplemental to and in implementation of the Indenture, and the Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall henceforth be read and construed together.
Indenture and
Indenture Construed Together
 
SECTION 204. .  The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this Second Supplemental Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Multiple Counterparts
SECTION 205. .  Any Notes authenticated and delivered after the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding and all Notes presented or delivered to the Trustee on and after that date for such purpose shall (unless textually revised as hereinafter provided) be stamped or typewritten by the Trustee with a notation as follows:
Endorsement and Change of Form of Notes
 
"New EQT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("New EQT"), has assumed the obligations of Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Company") as successor to the Company in connection with the transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety. New EQT has expressly assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), and interest on all of the Notes and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the of covenants and conditions in the Indenture to be performed by the Company, and the Company will be relieved from all covenants and obligations under the Notes, the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the Second Supplemental Indenture referred to below. The Indenture dated as of April 1, 1983 referred to in this Note has been amended by a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of
June 30, 2008
to provide for such assumptions of obligations by New EQT and the release of the Company from such obligations. Reference is hereby made to said Second Supplemental Indenture, copies of which are on file with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, for a description of the amendments therein made."
 
Any Notes hereafter authenticated and delivered in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding shall, if New EQT so elects, be textually revised in a form approved by the Trustee to make reference to the Second Supplemental Indenture and to reflect the supplement of the Indenture hereby instead of being stamped or typewritten as hereinabove provided.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as
of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.02(f)
 
 
225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212, Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation formed on June 10, 2008 and duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called "New EQT") and The Bank of New York, formerly known as Bank of Montreal Trust Company, a New York banking corporation (herein called the "Trustee") under the Indenture dated as of July 1, 1996 (the "Indenture") from the Company.
This First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2008, among Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company"), having its principal executive office at
 
WHEREAS, Section 901(1) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time may enter into one or more supplemental indentures for the purpose of evidencing the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 801 of the Indenture, the Company may convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other Person organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; provided, among other things, that such Person shall expressly assume, by a supplemental indenture executed and delivered to the Trustee and in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has transferred to New EQT all of Equitable's Production and Midstream businesses and all corporate assets and liabilities;
 
WHEREAS, New EQT will assume all the rights and obligations of, and succeed to and be substituted for, the Company under the Indenture and the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, to evidence the assumption of the obligations under the Indenture and the Securities by New EQT and the release of the Company from its liabilities and obligations under or with respect to the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with Sections 801 and 802 of the Indenture, New EQT has agreed to execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture;
 
5.15% Notes Due March 1, 2018, 5.15% Notes Due November 15, 2012, 5.00% Notes Due October 1, 2015, and the 7.75% Debentures Due July 15, 2026 and remain outstanding (the "Notes");
WHEREAS, the following series of Securities have been created prior to the execution hereof: 
 
WHEREAS, the execution of this First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel meeting the requirements of Section 801(4) of
 
the Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have received a direction to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture from the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of each series;
 
For and in consideration of the premises, and intending to be legally bound hereby, mutually covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
 
SECTION 101.   New EQT hereby fully and unconditionally assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
 
SECTION 201.   The Trustee, on behalf of the Holders of the Securities, hereby relieves the Company from all covenants and obligations under the Notes, the Securities, and the Indenture.
Release of the Company from Obligations.
 
SECTION 301.   For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Terms Defined.
 
s, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby. In accordance with Section 802 of the Indenture, upon the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, New EQT shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the party of the first part and the Company shall be released and relieved as heretofore agreed.
SECTION 302. Effect of Supplemental Indenture.  Upon the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be supplemented in accordance herewith, and this First Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purpose
SECTION 303.   This First Supplemental Indenture is an indenture supplemental to and in implementation of the Indenture, and the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall henceforth be read and construed together.
Indenture and Supplemental Indenture Construed Together.
 
e agreement.
SECTION 304. Multiple Counterparts.  The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this First Supplemental Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent the sam
 
SECTION 305.   Any Notes authenticated and delivered after the date of this First Supplemental Indenture in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding and all Notes presented or delivered to the Trustee on and after that date for such purpose shall (unless textually revised as hereinafter provided) be stamped or typewritten by the Trustee with a notation as follows:
Endorsement and Change of Form of Notes.
 
"New EQT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("New EQT"), has assumed the obligations of Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Company") as successor to the Company in connection with the transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety. New EQT has expressly assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Notes and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and obligations in the Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company, and the Company will be relieved from all covenants and obligations under the Notes, the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the First Supplemental Indenture referred to below. The Indenture dated as of July 1, 1996 referred to in this Note has been amended by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 30, 2008 to provide for such assumptions of obligations by New EQT and the release of the Company from such obligations. Reference is hereby made to said First Supplemental Indenture, copies of which are on file with The Bank of New York, as Trustee, for a description of the amendments therein made."
 
Any Notes hereafter authenticated and delivered in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding shall, if New EQT so elects, be textually revised in a form approved by the Trustee to make reference to the First Supplemental Indenture and to reflect the supplement of the Indenture hereby instead of being stamped or typewritten as hereinabove provided.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On this 9th day of June, 2008 before me personally appeared James E. Crockard, III, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Treasurer of Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation described in the foregoing instrument; and that he as such officer, being authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purposes therein contained by signing the name of the corporation by himself as such officer.
 
 
 
 
[Notarial Seal]
 
 
On this 9th day of June, 2008 before me personally appeared Philip P. Conti, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation described in the foregoing instrument; and that he as such officer, being authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purposes therein contained by signing the name of the corporation by himself as such officer.
 
 
 
 
[Notarial Seal]

Exhibit 4.03(c)
 
 
225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212, Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation formed on June 10, 2008 and duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called "New EQT") and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation (herein called the "Trustee"), under the Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Indenture") from the Company.
This Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2008, among Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company"), having its principal executive office at
 
WHEREAS, Section 14.01(d) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders, the Company and the Trustee, at any time may enter into one or more supplemental indentures for the purpose of evidencing the succession of another entity to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.04(a) of the Indenture, the Company may convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other entity provided that such entity shall expressly assume, by a supplemental indenture executed and delivered to the Trustee prior to or simultaneously with such conveyance, transfer or lease, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has transferred to New EQT all of Equitable's Production and Midstream businesses and all corporate assets and liabilities (the "Transfer");
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.04(c) of the Indenture, the Transfer shall be deemed to be a conveyance of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety;
 
WHEREAS, New EQT will assume all the rights and obligations of, and succeed to and be substituted for, the Company under the Indenture and the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, to evidence the assumption of the obligations under the Indenture and the Securities by New EQT and the release of the Company from its liabilities and obligations under or with respect to the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with Sections 14.01(d) and 6.04(a) of the Indenture, New EQT has agreed to execute and deliver this Second Supplemental Indenture;
 
6.50% Senior Notes Due March, 2018 and remain outstanding (the "Notes");
WHEREAS, the following series of Securities have been created prior to the execution hereof: 
 
WHEREAS, the execution of this Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel meeting the requirements of Section 16.01 of
 
the Indenture;
 
For and in consideration of the premises, and intending to be legally bound hereby, mutually covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
 
SECTION 101.   New EQT hereby fully and unconditionally assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
 
SECTION 201.   The Trustee, on behalf of the Holders of the Securities, hereby relieves the Company from all covenants and obligations under the Notes, the Securities, and the Indenture.
Release of the Company from Obligations.
 
SECTION 301.   For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Terms Defined.
 
s, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby. In accordance with Section 6.04(a) of the Indenture, upon the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, New EQT shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the party of the first part and the Company shall be released and relieved as heretofore agreed.
SECTION 302. .  Upon the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture by New EQT, the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be supplemented in accordance herewith, and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purpose
Effect of Supplemental Indenture
 
SECTION 303.   This Second Supplemental Indenture is an indenture supplemental to and in implementation of the Indenture, and the Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall henceforth be read and construed together.
Indenture and Supplemental Indenture Construed Together.
e agreement.
SECTION 304.   The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this Second Supplemental Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent the sam
Multiple Counterparts.
 
SECTION 305.   Any Notes authenticated and delivered after the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding and all Notes presented or delivered to the Trustee on and after that date for such purpose shall (unless textually revised as hereinafter provided) be stamped or typewritten by the Trustee with a notation as follows:
Endorsement and Change of Form of Notes.
 
"New EQT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("New EQT"), has assumed the obligations of Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Company") as successor to the Company in connection with the transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety. New EQT has expressly assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Notes and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and obligations in the Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company, and the Company will be relieved from all covenants and obligations under the Notes, the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the Second Supplemental Indenture referred to below. The Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 referred to in this Note has been amended by a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 30, 2008 to provide for such assumptions of obligations by New EQT and the release of the Company from such obligations. Reference is hereby made to said Second Supplemental Indenture, copies of which are on file with The Bank of New York, as Trustee, for a description of the amendments therein made."
 
Any Notes hereafter authenticated and delivered in exchange or substitution for Notes then outstanding shall, if New EQT so elects, be textually revised in a form approved by the Trustee to make reference to the Second Supplemental Indenture and to reflect the supplement of the Indenture hereby instead of being stamped or typewritten as hereinabove provided.
 
representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and new EQT and not of the Trustee.
SECTION 306. The Trustee makes no
Trustee.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.12(i)
 
 
June 9, 2008
 
Murry S. Gerber
340 Fox Hunt Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15238
 
 
DearMr. Gerber:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
 
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED, CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
MURRY S. GERBER
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Employment Agreement, dated May 4, 1998, between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, and Amendment No. 3 to Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2004
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Amended and Restated Post-Termination Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Murry S. Gerber and Equitable Resources, Inc.
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement, dated May 4, 1998, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Satisfaction Agreement in Respect of Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement, dated February 22, 2006, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.             The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.             The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
 
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 2008)
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Employment Agreement, dated May 4, 1998, between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, and Amendment No. 3 to Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2004
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Amended and Restated Post-Termination Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Murry S. Gerber and Equitable Resources, Inc.
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement, dated May 4, 1998, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 
Satisfaction Agreement in Respect of Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement, dated February 22, 2006, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Murry S. Gerber
 

Exhibit 10.13(g)
 
 
June 9, 2008
 
David L. Porges
5725 Aylesboro Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15217
 
 
Dear Mr. Porges:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
 
 
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED, CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
DAVID L. PORGES
 
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 
Employment Agreement, dated July 1, 1998, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, and Amendment No. 3 to Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2004
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 
Amended and Restated Post-Termination Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.
            
The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.
            
The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.
            
The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.
            
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.
            
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.
            
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 
Employment Agreement, dated July 1, 1998, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, and Amendment No. 3 to Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2004
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 
Amended and Restated Post-Termination Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and David L. Porges
 

Exhibit 10.14(d)
 
 
June 9, 2008
 
Philip P. Conti
2134 Gandeur Drive
Gibsonia, PA 15044
 
 
Dear Mr. Conti:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
 
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
Charlene J. Petrelli Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED, CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
PHILIP P. CONTI
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti, as amended by Addendum No. 1 to Change of Control Agreement, dated December 29, 2006, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated August 21, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated October 30, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.             The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.             The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 2008)
 
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti, as amended by Addendum No. 1 to Change of Control Agreement, dated December 29, 2006, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated August 21, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated October 30, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Philip P. Conti
 

Exhibit 10.15(c)
 
 
June 5, 2008
 
Randall L. Crawford
 
 
Dear Mr. Crawford:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
 
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated January 1, 2003, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.             The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.             The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated January 1, 2003, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Randall L. Crawford
 

Exhibit 10.16(c)
 
 
June 9, 2008
 
Joseph E. O'Brien
12 Cedar Road
Andover, MA 01810
 
 
Dear Mr. O'Brien:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED,
CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
JOSEPH E. O'BRIEN
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E. O'Brien
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated January 18, 2001, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E. O'Brien
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated January 30, 2001, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E O'Brien
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
1.
            
 
The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
2.
            
 
The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
3.
            
 
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
4.
            
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
5.
            
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
6.
            
 
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 2008)
 
 
 
Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2002, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E. O'Brien
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated January 18, 2001, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E. O'Brien
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated January 30, 2001, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Joseph E O'Brien
 

Exhibit 10.17(c)
 
 
June 9, 2008
 
Johanna G. O'Loughlin
9 Dunmoyle Place
Pittsburgh, PA 15217
 
 
Dear Ms. O'Loughlin:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreements) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreements and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreements pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreements from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreements.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
You may be a participant in certain executive compensation plans.  Upon completion of the reorganization, any stock options to purchase shares of Equitable common stock shall become stock options to purchase shares of common stock of New EQT and any shares of restricted stock shall become shares of restricted stock of New EQT.  Similarly, any other awards representing shares of Equitable common stock will automatically become awards representing shares of New EQT.  The number of stock options, shares, including shares represented, and the terms and any exercise price associated therewith will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In addition, the stock on which the performance condition under the 2005 Executive Performance Incentive Program (the
 
"EPIP") in which you may participate is based will automatically be adjusted to become the common stock of New EQT, and the value of the performance shares awarded will be determined by reference to the common stock of New EQT.  Further, the performance goals of the Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "ESTIP") will now be determined by reference to New EQT, the common stock of New EQT and its affiliates and business units, as applicable, but your incentive targets are not otherwise affected. If you are a participant in the EPIP or the ESTIP, you remain subject to the terms of the plan, your individual award and/or your individual notice of participation.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreements will constitute legally binding agreements between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit B
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-5712.  Thank you in advance for your timely assistance with our request.  We look forward to our continuing relationship with you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED,
CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
JOHANNA G. O'LOUGHLIN
 
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin (to the extent of any remaining rights or obligations)
 
Employment Agreement, dated March 14, 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.             The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.             The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute
 
 
and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 2008)
 
 
Indemnification Agreement, dated May 17, 2000, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin
 
Noncompete Agreement, dated December 1, 1999, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin (to the extent of any remaining rights or obligations)
 
Employment Agreement, dated March 14, 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc. and Johanna G. O'Loughlin
 

Exhibit 10.19(b)
 
 
[Date]
 
[Name and Address]
 
 
Dear [Name]:
 
As you know, to effect the pending reorganization, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Equitable") will merge with a second tier subsidiary (the "Merger"), which will result in a first tier subsidiary ("New EQT") becoming the new publicly traded parent company of the Equitable family of companies.  Following the Merger, we will transfer to the new parent company all of the assets and liabilities of existing Equitable Resources (including the Agreement) other than those associated with our existing Equitable Gas Company division (the "Asset/Liability Transfer").
 
As part of the Asset/Liability Transfer, New EQT will assume all of Equitable's rights, interests, obligations and liabilities under and to the Agreement and will be substituted for all purposes for Equitable under the Agreement pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "Contract Assignment").  Other than changing your counterparty to the Agreement from the existing parent company of the Equitable family of companies to the new parent company, the reorganization will have no effect on the Agreement.  Accordingly, following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreement will continue to govern your relationship with New EQT.
 
In addition, upon completion of the reorganization, your awards representing shares of Equitable common stock under the 1999 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan (the "1999 Plan") will become awards representing shares of the common stock of New EQT and any deemed investment in common stock of Equitable under the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan or the 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (collectively, the "DDCP") will become a deemed investment in the common stock of New EQT.  The number of shares represented, the terms and any exercise price associated with your awards will remain the same and will remain subject to the existing agreements and 1999 Plan.  If elected or awarded, future deferrals to the Company Stock Fund under the DDCP will be deemed to be invested in the common stock of New EQT.
 
We hereby request that you acknowledge, by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning it to the address set forth below, that (1) following the Merger and Contract Assignment the Agreement will constitute legally binding agreement between you and New EQT and (2) the form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as is satisfactory to transfer all agreements between you and Equitable to New EQT as part of the Asset/Liability Transfer.
Exhibit A
 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly Sachse at 412-553-5758 or me at 412-553-7760.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Equitable Resources, Inc.
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED, CONFIRMED, CONSENTED TO AND AGREED:
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the      day of                 , 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("Assignor") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor ("Assignee").
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest under and to the agreements identified on attached hereto (the "Transferred Agreements"); and
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Transferred Agreements and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Transferred Agreements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Agreements.  Such assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
 
2.             The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Transferred Agreements.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Transferred Agreements effective as of the date hereof.
 
3.             The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
4.             This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
 
5.             This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
 
6.             This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
 
Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 1926)
 
 
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
(organized in 2008)
 
 
[Agreements]
 

Exhibit 10.23(b)
 
This ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AND FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into effective as of June 30, 2008 (the ""), among EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 (the ""), EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 (the "") and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders as defined in the Credit Agreement hereinafter referenced
Amendment
Amendment Effective Date
Borrower
Existing
New Borrower
(in such capacity, the "").
Administrative Agent
 
WHEREAS, the Existing Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. as Swing Line Lender and as a L/C Issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent and as a L/C Issuer, and the Lenders and other agents named therein are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of October 27, 2006 (the ); and
"Credit Agreement"
 
WHEREAS, the Existing Borrower and the New Borrower have implemented Restructuring Alternative No. 2 as defined in the Credit Agreement and as contemplated by of the Credit Agreement, and the parties are entering into this Amendment pursuant to  of the Credit Agreement;
Section 10.22
Section 10.22(c)(iii)
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.           .  Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment, terms used in this Amendment which are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  For purposes of this Amendment, the term "Loan Documents" shall also include the Issuer Documents.  "" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.  The interpretive provisions set forth in of the Credit Agreement shall apply to this Amendment.
Definitions
Issuer Documents
Section 1.02
 
SECTION 2.           . Effective as of the Amendment Effective Date (a)  Existing Borrower hereby
Assignment and Assumption; Release of Existing Borrower
assigns to New Borrower, and New Borrower hereby assumes from Existing Borrower, all of
Existing Borrower
's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents including, without limitation, all such rights and obligations arising prior to the Amendment Effective Date; (b) Existing Borrower is released from all obligations arising under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents; and (c) Existing Borrower shall no longer have the rights of the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
SECTION 3.           .  Effective as of the Amendment Effective Date, the Credit Agreement and each other Loan Document is hereby amended as follows:  the
Amendments to Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents
"Borrower"
shall be
Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 instead of Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926.
 
SECTION 4.           .
Conditions to Amendment Effective Date
 
(a)           This Amendment shall be effective on the Amendment Effective Date, subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
 
(i)            the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment, executed by the Borrower; and
 
(ii)           the conditions precedent set forth in of the Credit Agreementshall have been satisfied.
Sections 10.22(c)(i), (ii), (iv), (v) and (vi) 
 
SECTION 5.           .  Each of New Borrower and Existing Borrower agrees and acknowledges that the execution, delivery, and performance of this Amendment shall, except as expressly provided herein, in no way release, diminish, impair, reduce, or otherwise affect the obligations of the "Borrower" under the Loan Documents, which Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.
Acknowledgment and Ratification
 
SECTION 6.          
Existing Borrower's and New Borrower's Representations and Warranties
.
 
(a)           Existing Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that as of the date of its execution of this Amendment and before giving effect to the assignment, assumption and amendments herein contained, (i) the representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as though made on the date hereof, except to the extent that any of them speak to a specific earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this   the representations and warranties contained in  and of of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to  and , respectively, of of the Credit Agreement and (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists; and
Section
6(a)
subsections (a)
(b) 
Section 5.04
subsections
(a)
(b)
Section 6.01
 
                New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that after giving effect to the assignment, assumption and amendments herein contained, (i) the representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as though made on the date hereof, except to the extent that any of them speak to a specific earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this   the representations and warranties contained in  and  of of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to  and , respectively, of of the Credit Agreement and (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists.
Section
6(a)
subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.04
subsections (a)
(b)
Section 6.01
 
(b)           Each of Existing Borrower and New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not contravene the terms of any of its organizational documents or any Law or any indenture or loan or credit agreement or any other material agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound or to which it or its properties are subject.
 
(c)           Each of Existing Borrower and New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that no authorizations, approvals or consents of, and no filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority or any other person are necessary for the execution, delivery or performance by it of this Amendment or for the validity or enforceability thereof, except as have been completed or obtained and are in full force and effect on the date hereof.
 
(d)           New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that no authorizations, approvals or consents of, and no filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority or any other person are necessary for the borrowing by New Borrower of the full amount of the Commitments, other than routine filings with the SEC and/or other Governmental Authorities.
 
 
(e)           Each of Existing Borrower and New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that this Amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligations of such entity, enforceable against such entity in accordance with its terms, except as limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability, and by judicial discretion regarding the enforcement of or any applicable laws affecting remedies (whether considered in a court of law or a proceeding in equity).
 
(f)            Each of Existing Borrower and New Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that New Borrower is New Parent Co. as defined in the Credit Agreement.
 
SECTION 7.             New Borrower agrees to pay the reasonable Attorney Costs of the Administrative Agent incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Amendment and any other documents executed or delivered in connection herewith.
Payment of Attorney Costs.
 
SECTION 8.           .
Effect of Amendment
 
(a)             This Amendment (i) except as expressly provided herein, shall not be deemed to be a consent to the modification or waiver of any other term or condition of the Credit Agreement or of any other Loan Document or of any of the instruments or agreements referred to therein and (ii) shall not prejudice any right or rights which the Administrative Agent or the Lenders may now have under or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents, as amended by this Amendment.  Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain the same.  The Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect.
 
(b)            
From and after the Amendment Effective Date, (i) each reference in the Credit Agreement, including the schedules and exhibits thereto, and the other documents and Loan Documents delivered in connection therewith to the "Credit Agreement," "this Agreement," "hereunder," "hereof," "herein," or words of like import, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement or the applicable document or Loan Document as amended hereby, and (ii) each reference in the Credit Agreement, including the schedules and exhibits thereto, the Notes, and the other documents and Loan Documents delivered in con
nection therewith, to "Equitable Resources, Inc."
(except for those references in of the Credit Agreement and those references in certificates, financial statements, notices and other correspondence dated prior to the Amendment Effective Date)
Section 10.22
shall be deemed
to be and shall be a reference to "Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008".
 
SECTION 9.               .  This Amendment shall for all purposes be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York and applicable federal law.  The captions in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.  This Amendment may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.  In proving this Amendment, it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.  This Amendment, and any documents required or requested to be delivered pursuant to Section 4 hereof, may be delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof and thereof, as applicable.  This Amendment shall be a "Loan Document" as defined in the Credit Agreement.
Miscellaneous
 
SECTION 10.             .  THE CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS (EACH AS AMENDED BY THIS AMENDMENT) REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE
Entire Agreement
 
 
OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.  THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.24(a)
 
THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER ("Agreement") dated as of the 30 day of June, 2008 among Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 (the "Company"), Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("New EQT") and EGC Merger Co., a Pennsylvania corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of New EQT ("MergerSub").
th
 
A.  The Company's authorized capital stock consists of 320,000,000 shares of common stock, no par value ("Company Common Stock"), of which approximately 130,880,000 shares were issued and outstanding as of June 10, 2008 and 26,750,000 shares were held in treasury on such date, and (ii) 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value ("Company Preferred Stock"), none of which is currently outstanding. The Company's Board of Directors has the authority, without further shareholder action, to divide the preferred stock into series and to determine and fix the designations and relative rights and preferences of each series prior to issuance.
 
B.  New EQT's authorized capital stock consists of 320,000,000 shares of common stock, no par value ("New EQT Common Stock"), of which 10,000 shares are issued and outstanding, and (ii) 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value ("New EQT Preferred Stock"), none of which is currently outstanding. New EQT's Board of Directors has the authority, without further shareholder action, to divide the preferred stock into series and to determine and fix the designations and relative rights and preferences of each series prior to issuance. The Company owns all of the issued and outstanding New EQT Common Stock.
 
C.  The designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the New EQT Common Stock and the New EQT Preferred Stock are the same as those of the Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock.
 
D.  The Articles of Incorporation and the By-laws of New EQT immediately after the Effective Time (as hereinafter defined) will contain provisions identical to the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company immediately before the Effective Time
.
 
E.  MergerSub's authorized capital stock consists of 1,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value ("MergerSub Common Stock"), of which 1,000 shares are currently issued and outstanding and no shares are currently held in treasury.  New EQT owns all of the issued and outstanding MergerSub Common Stock.
 
F.  New EQT and MergerSub are newly formed corporations organized for the purpose of participating in the transactions herein contemplated.
 
G.  The Company desires to create a new holding company structure, pursuant to Section 1924(b)(4) of the PBCL (the "PBCL"), by merging MergerSub with and into the Company with the Company being the surviving corporation, and converting each outstanding share of Company Common Stock into a like number of shares of New EQT Common Stock, all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
 
H.  The Boards of Directors of New EQT, MergerSub and the Company have approved this Agreement and the merger of MergerSub with and into the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement (the "Merger") in accordance with the PBCL.
 
I.  Immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Company will contribute to the capital of New EQT all of the shares of Company Common Stock then held by the Company in its treasury.
 
J.  The directors and officers of the Company immediately prior to the Merger will be the directors and officers of New EQT as of the Effective Time.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Company, New EQT and MergerSub hereby agree as follows:
 
.  Pursuant to the provisions of Section 1924(b)(4) of the PBCL and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, MergerSub shall, at the Effective Time, be merged with and into the Company, and the separate existence of MergerSub shall cease.  The Company shall continue as the surviving corporation and assume all rights, privileges, assets and liabilities of MergerSub.  The Company as the surviving corporation after the Merger is hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Surviving Corporation."
1.
                                     
The Merger
 
.  At the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in Section 1929 of the PBCL.  As a result of the Merger, by operation of law and without further act or deed, at the Effective Time, all property, rights, interests and other assets of Merger Sub shall be transferred to and vested in the Surviving Corporation, and the Surviving Corporation shall assume all of the liabilities and obligations of MergerSub.
2.
                                     
Surviving Corporation
 
.
3.
                                     
Treatment of Shares
 
.  At the Effective Time, each share of New EQT Common Stock held by the Company shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder thereof, be cancelled without conversion or issuance of any shares of stock of the Surviving Corporation with respect thereto.
3.1.
                             
New EQT Common Stock
 
.  At the Effective Time, each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time  (including those shares formerly held in treasury by the Company and contributed to New EQT prior to the Merger) shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder thereof, be converted into and thereafter represent one fully paid, duly issued and nonassessable share of New EQT Common Stock, which shall have the same designations, rights, powers and preferences and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as a share of Company Common Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of Company Common Stock shall, at the effective time, automatically, without the requirement of any exchange thereof, represent the same number of shares of New EQT Common Stock.
3.2.
                             
Company Common Stock and Certificates
 
.  At the Effective Time, each share of MergerSub Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder thereof, be converted into and thereafter represent one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation.
3.3.
                             
MergerSub Common Stock
.  If this Agreement is not terminated as contemplated by Section 10 hereof, Articles of Merger (the "Articles of Merger"), executed in accordance with the PBCL, shall be delivered to the appropriate state officials for filing.  The Merger shall become effective at 11:58 P.M. on Monday, June 30, 2008 (the "Effective Time").
4.
                                     
Effective Time
 
.  The Articles of Incorporation of MergerSub as in effect at the Effective Time, from and after the Effective Time and until further amended as provided by applicable law, shall be, and may be separately certified as, the Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation.
5.
                                     
Articles of Incorporation
 
.  The By-laws of MergerSub, as in effect at the Effective Time, shall be the By-laws of the Surviving Corporation, to remain unchanged until amended in accordance with the provisions thereof and of applicable law.
6.
                                     
By-laws
 
.  At the Effective Time, the Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation shall consist of those persons who were directors of MergerSub immediately prior to the Effective Time, and the officers of the Surviving Corporation shall be the persons who were officers of MergerSub immediately prior to the Effective Time, each such person to hold, in accordance with the By-laws and at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation, the same office or offices with the Surviving Corporation as he or she then held with MergerSub.
7.
                                     
Directors and Officers
 
8.
                                     
Actions to be taken in Connection with the Merger.
 
.  New EQT and the Company hereby agree that they will, at the Effective Time, execute, acknowledge and deliver an assumption agreement pursuant to which New EQT will, from and after the Effective Time, assume and agree to perform all obligations of the Company under the Company's Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Employee Deferred Compensation Plan and Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-122382); 1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-70822); Equitable Resources, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan and Equitable Resources, Inc. Directors'  Deferred Compensation Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-32410); 1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-82189); 1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-82193); Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings and Protection Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-22529); Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Registration Statement No. 333-01879); Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (Registration Statement No. 2-66128) and Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings Plan (Registration Statement No. 033-00252) (the "Registered Stock Plans").
8.1.
                             
Assumption of Equity Plans
 
The outstanding options and other awards assumed by New EQT shall be exercisable upon the same terms and conditions as under the Plans immediately prior to the Effective Time, except that, upon the exercise of each such option or award, shares of New EQT Common Stock shall be issuable in lieu of each share of Company Common Stock issuable upon the exercise thereof immediately prior to the Effective Time.
 
.  It is the intent of the parties hereto that New EQT, as of the Effective Time, be deemed a "successor issuer" for purposes of continuing offerings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  As soon as practicable following the Merger, New EQT will file post-effective amendments to the Company's registration statements on Form S-8 covering the Registered Stock Plans, adopting such statements as its own registration statements for all purposes of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and setting forth any additional information necessary to reflect any material changes made in connection with or resulting from the succession or
8.2.
                             
Post-Effective Amendments
necessary to keep the registration statements from being misleading.
 
.  On or prior to the Effective Time, New EQT will reserve sufficient shares of New EQT Common Stock to provide for the issuance of New EQT Common Stock upon exercise of the options outstanding under the Registered Stock Plans.
8.3.
                             
Reservation of Shares
 
.The Agreement was adopted and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company acting through a Special Committee of the Board of Directors by an action on June 9, 2008, by written consent of the Board of Directors of New EQT dated June 10, 2008 and by written consent of the Board of Directors of MergerSub dated June 10, 2008.  Pursuant to Section 1924(b)(4) of the PBCL, the Plan was not approved by the shareholders of the Company or MergerSub.
9.
                                     
Adoption and Approval
 
 
.  This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger abandoned by the Board of Directors of each of the Company, New EQT or MergerSub at any time prior to the Effective Time.  In addition, this Agreement may be amended by the mutual consent of the Boards of Directors of the Company, New EQT and MergerSub at any time prior to the Effective Time.
10.
                              
Termination and Amendment
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
11.
                              
Governing Law
 
.This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same agreement.
12.
                              
Counterparts
 
 
.  Upon the Effective Date, all the property, rights, privileges, franchises, patents, trademarks, licenses, registrations and other assets of every kind and description of MergerSub shall be transferred to, vested in and devolve upon the Company without further act or deed and all property, rights, and every other interest of the Company and MergerSub shall be as effectively the property of the Company as they were of the Company and MergerSub respectively.  MergerSub hereby agrees from time to time, as and when requested by the Company or by its successors or assigns, to execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered all such deeds and instruments and to take or cause to be taken such further or other action as the Company may deem necessary or desirable in order to vest in and confirm to the Company title to and possession of any property of MergerSub acquired or to be acquired by reason of or as a result of the Merger herein provided for and otherwise to carry out the intent and purposes hereof and the proper officers and directors of MergerSub and the proper officers and directors of the Company are fully authorized in the name of MergerSub or otherwise to take any and all such action.
13.
                              
Miscellaneous
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this duly approved Agreement to be executed as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.24(b)
 
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
 
This ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of the 30th day of June, 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor,   ("").
Assignor
Assignee
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor sponsors all of the benefit plans as described on hereto and has in the past sponsored benefit plans which are no longer operative (the "") and the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all of Assignor's right, title, and interest under and to the Benefit Plans (the transfer of such Benefit Plans is referred to as the ""); and
Schedule A
Benefit Plans
Assignment
 
WHEREAS, Assignee desires to assume all of Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations under and to the Benefit Plans.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.  .  Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Benefit Plans.  Such Assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
Assignment
 
2.  .  The Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Benefit Plans.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to the Benefit Plans effective as of the date hereof, except as required by contract, in which case Assignee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Assignor for all costs and expenses incurred by Assignor with respect to such Benefit Plans.
Assumption
 
3. .  It is understood and agreed by the Assignor and Assignee that to the extent a consent, approval and/or waiver is required for the conveyance of a particular right, title or interest relating to any Benefit Plan, then this Agreement shall not be deemed to have conveyed said right, title or interest to Assignee, if an actual or attempted assignment thereof would constitute a breach thereof or default thereunder resulting in termination thereof, until such required consent, approval and/or waiver is obtained.  The Assignor and Assignee shall cooperate in obtaining any such required consents, approvals and/or waivers, and for any pending period, the Assignor and Assignee shall cooperate in any reasonable, permitted arrangement to provide Assignee with all, or the equivalent of all, of the benefits and privileges associated with said right, title or interest.
Savings
 
4. .  The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Further Assurances
 
5. .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
6.  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
7.  .  This Agreement may be executed and delivered in one or more counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
8.  .  The section headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Comprehensive Welfare Plan for Unfunded Benefits
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Comprehensive Welfare Plan for Retirees
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Retirement Plan for Employees, and all related sub-plans
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
 
1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
 
1999 Equitable Resources, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings and Protection Plan
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
Equitable Resources, Inc. Employee Savings Plan
 
Other benefit and employee fringe benefit plans

Exhibit 10.24(c)
 
MASTER ASSIGNMENT, ASSUMPTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AGREEMENT
 
This MASTER ASSIGNMENT, ASSUMPTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of the 30th day of June, 2008, by and between Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1926 ("") and Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in  2008 to effect a holding company reorganization of Assignor, ("").
Agreement
Assignor
Assignee
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor owns certain rights, interests and obligations in or with respect to the following assets and liabilities (collectively, the ""):
Assets and Liabilities
 
(a) 100% limited liability company membership interest of Equitable Distribution, LLC;
 
(b) 100% limited liability company membership interest of EQT Investments Holdings, LLC;
 
(c) 500,000 ordinary shares of Equitable Resources Insurance Co., Ltd.;
 
(d) if the merger of Kentucky West Virginia Gas Company, LLC into Equitable Distribution, LLC has not occurred, 99% limited liability company membership interest of Kentucky West Virginia Gas Company, LLC;
 
(e) 97.25% limited partnership interest of Equitrans, LP;
 
(f) the following notes, debentures and medium-term notes:
 
 
(g) the Revolving Credit Facility dated October 27, 2006;
 
(h) 55,378 shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Alzeta Corporation;
 
(i) all limited partnership interests in Strategic Investment Fund Partners, LP; and
 
.
(j) all other assets and liabilities identified on attached hereto
Exhibit A
 
WHEREAS, the Assignor desires to assign and transfer to the Assignee all right, title, and interest in the Assets and Liabilities (such transfer is referred to as the ""); and
Assignment
 
WHEREAS, the Assignee desires to substitute itself for and become the successor to the Assignor with respect to the Assets and Liabilities and to assume and perform all of the Assignor's covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations with respect to the Assets and Liabilities.
 
in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
Section 1.  .  Assignor does hereby assign, sell, transfer, and set over to Assignee, its successors and assigns forever, all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the Assets and Liabilities. Such Assignment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
Assignment
 
Section 2.  .  Assignee hereby assumes and agrees to promptly perform all covenants, agreements, duties, responsibilities and obligations of Assignor under the Assets and Liabilities.  Assignor shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations with respect to
Assumption
the Assets and Liabilities effective as of the date hereof, except as required by contract, in which case Assignee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Assignor for all costs and expenses incurred by Assignor with respect to such Assets or Liabilities.
 
 It is understood and agreed by the Assignor and Assignee that to the extent a consent, approval and/or waiver is required for the conveyance of a particular right, title or interest relating to any of the Assets and Liabilities, then this Agreement shall not be deemed to have conveyed said right, title or interest to Assignee, if an actual or attempted assignment thereof would constitute a breach thereof or default thereunder resulting in termination thereof, until such required consent, approval and/or waiver is obtained.  The Assignor and Assignee shall cooperate in obtaining any such required consents, approvals and/or waivers, and for any pending period, the Assignor and Assignee shall cooperate in any reasonable, permitted arrangement to provide Assignee with all, or the equivalent of all, of the benefits and privileges associated with said right, title or interest.
Section 3.  . 
Savings
 
.  The Assignor and Assignee hereby covenant, from time to time at the request of the other party and without further cost or expense to such party, to execute and deliver such other instruments which the other party may reasonably request in order to more effectively consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 4. 
Further Assurances
 
Section 5.  .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to the conflicts-of-laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
Section 6.  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
Section 7.  .  This Agreement may be executed and delivered in one or more counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 8.  .  The section headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Assignor and Assignee have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
All other assets and liabilities of Assignor which are not assets or liabilities of Equitable Gas Company (a division of Assignor) including, but not limited to, the following:
 
i) all corporate records of Assignor including, but not limited to, (a) minutes of meetings of shareholders, board of directors, and committees of the board; (b) stock ledgers, (c) shareholder reports or other documents furnished to shareholders or filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (d) analyst or rating agency reports, and (e) press releases;
 
ii) all accounting records of Assignor including, but not limited to, (a) monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements, (b) all management letters, reports or studies on internal controls or other special or regular reports or recommendations produced by external or internal auditors, and (c) copies of all foreign, Federal, state and local income, franchise, sales, property, gross receipt and employment tax returns;
 
iii) all of Assignor's real property leases;
 
iv) all of Assignor's contracts and documentation regarding indebtedness of Assignor including, but not limited to, credit agreements, indentures, capitalized leases, private placement memorandums for Assignor's commercial paper program and swap or other "derivative" agreements;
 
v) all indemnification agreements, employment agreements, noncompete agreements and other agreements and arrangements with directors, officers, employees and agents;
 
vi)  Assignor's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan;
 
vii)  Assignor's License Agreement for Penguins Suite;
 
viii)  all of Assignor's motor vehicles;
 
ix) all of Assignor's insurance policies or arrangements;
 
x) all of Assignor's other corporate contracts;
 
xi) all of Assignor's office furniture and equipment;
 
xii)  all other books, records and other assets of Assignor; and
 
xiii) all other liabilities of Assignor, whether known, unknown, contingent or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
July 1, 2008
 
On June 30, 2008, Equitable Resources, Inc. ("Old Equitable") reorganized into a holding company structure in which a newly formed Pennsylvania corporation also named Equitable Resources, Inc. ("New EQT") became the holding company of the Old Equitable family of companies.  The primary purpose of this reorganization was to separate Old Equitable's state-regulated distribution operations into a new subsidiary in order to better segregate our regulated and unregulated businesses and improve overall financing flexibility.
 
In connection with the reorganization, Old Equitable transferred to New EQT all of the assets and liabilities of Old Equitable other than those associated with our Equitable Gas Company division.  New EQT and its subsidiaries will continue to conduct the same businesses and operations that Old Equitable conducted prior to the reorganization.
 
Shareholders do not have to take any action in connection with the reorganization.  Your shares of common stock of Old Equitable have automatically been exchanged for shares of the common stock of New EQT.  The shares of New EQT have the same rights and terms as the shares of Old Equitable and are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange by the same ticker symbol (EQT).  In addition, Old Equitable's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan will continue after the reorganization as the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of New EQT.
 
If you have any questions about the reorganization, please do not hesitate to contact Kimberly L. Sachse, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary by calling 412-553-5780.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Murry S. Gerber Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 


