FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20080318163229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On March 18, 2008, Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Company") completed a public offering of $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Senior Notes").  The Senior Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-148154) and the Prospectus included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 19, 2007 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated March 13, 2008.  The Company intends to apply the net proceeds from the sale to repay short-term indebtedness.
 
The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated March 13, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named therein (together, the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Senior Notes.  Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company agreed to sell to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Senior Notes for resale to the public.  The Underwriting Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company.  It also provides for customary indemnification by each of the Company and the Underwriters against certain liabilities and customary contribution provisions in respect of those liabilities.
 
The Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (as supplemented, the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee.  The Company sold the Senior Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 98.671% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the Senior Notes to the public at a price of 99.321% of the principal amount thereof.  Interest is payable on the Senior Notes on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 2008.  The Company may issue additional debt from time to time pursuant to the Indenture.  The Indenture governing the Senior Notes contains covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions, and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all the Company's assets.
 
The foregoing description of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such documents, which are filed as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, and 4.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
               
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
 
$500,000,000
 
6.50% Senior Notes due 2018
 
Underwriting Agreement
 
March 13, 2008
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Lehman Brothers Inc.
  As Representatives of the
  several Underwriters listed
  in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC
9 West 57 Street
th
New York, New York  10019
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters named in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), $500,000,000 principal amount of its 6.50% Notes due 2018 (the "Notes").
 
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee").  The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
 
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-148154), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act.  Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "Registration
 
Statement."  The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "Execution Time") by the parties hereto.  The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b).  Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 1:00 p.m. on March 13, 2008 (the "Initial Sale Time").  All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
 
The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Underwriters concerning the purchase and resale of the Notes, as follows:
 
 (a)  The Company agrees to issue and sell the Notes to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Notes set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.671% of the principal amount.  The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Notes except upon payment for all the Notes to be purchased as provided herein.
1.
                                      
Purchase and Sale of the Notes.
 
The Company acknowledges and agrees that:  (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluation and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other
(b)
                                
party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior written agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
 
  (a)  Payment for and delivery of the Notes will be made at the offices of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, 10017, at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on March 18, 2008, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the third business day hereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing.  The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
2.
                                      
Payment and Delivery.
 
Payment for the Notes shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the Depositary, for the account of the several Underwriters, of global notes representing the Notes purchased by the Underwriters (collectively, the "Global Notes").  The Global Notes will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
(b)
                                
 
  The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that:
3.
                                      
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
 
  The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Trust Indenture Act").
(a)
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
                                 
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (including the filing with the Commission of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "Annual Report on Form 10-K")) became effective and as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.  At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 6 hereof.
 
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
.  The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated March 12, 2008 and (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses, if any, identified in Annex I hereto.  As of the Initial Sale Time, (a) the Disclosure Package did not and (b) each electronic road show, when taken together as a whole with the Disclosure Package, did not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 6 hereof.
(b)
Disclosure Package
                                
 
 The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(c)
Incorporated Documents.
                                 
.  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
(d)
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
                                
 
(i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
(e)
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer.
                                 
 
  Each issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict.  The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 6 hereof.
(f)
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
                                   
 
.  The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or the Registration Statement.
(g)
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
                                
.  There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
(h)
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights
                                
 
  The financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, and present fairly the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto; and the other financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus has been derived from the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries and presents fairly the information shown thereby.
(i)
Financial Statements.
                                    
 
  Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, business, prospects, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, except as otherwise disclosed or contemplated in the Disclosure Package; and (ii) except as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole other than in the ordinary course of business.
(j)
No Material Adverse Change.
                                    
 
The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, with power and authority (corporate or other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties, or conducts any business, so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(k)
Organization.  
                                 
 
  Each of the Company's subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, with power and authority (corporate or other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully-paid and non-assessable, and (except in the case of foreign subsidiaries, for
(l)
Subsidiaries.
                                    
directors' qualifying shares) are owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and claims.
 
This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(m)
Due Authorization. 
                              
 
The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and is a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability; and the Indenture (including any amendments and supplements thereto) will conform on the Closing Date with all requirements of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to an indenture that is qualified thereunder.
(n)
The Indenture. 
                                
 
The Notes have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the Indenture and delivered to and duly paid for by the purchasers thereof, will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability; the Notes, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the Indenture and delivered to and duly paid for by the purchasers thereof, will rank with all Notes (as defined in the Indenture) issued and to be issued under the Indenture and all other unsecured debt of the Company which is not expressly subordinated; and the Notes and the Indenture will conform to the description thereof in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(o)
The Notes. 
                                
pari
passu
 
  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would be, in violation of or in default under, its Restated Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them or any of their respective properties is bound, except for violations and defaults which individually and in the aggregate are not material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or to the holders of the Notes; the issue and sale of the Notes and the performance by the Company of all the provisions of its obligations under the Notes, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein and therein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, nor will any such action result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Company or any applicable law or statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, license, filing, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the
(p)
No Violation or Default.
                                
Notes or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, licenses, filings, registrations or qualifications that have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force under the Securities Act and as may be required under state securities laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Notes by the Underwriters or from the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes.
 
.  Other than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is or may be subject which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, could individually or in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, business, prospects, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
(q)
Legal Proceedings
                                
 
  The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title in fee simple to all items of real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by them, in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects except such as are described or referred to in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such property by the Company and its subsidiaries; and any real property and buildings held under lease by the Company and its subsidiaries are held by them under valid, existing and enforceable leases with such exceptions as are not material and do not interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such property and buildings by the Company or its subsidiaries.
(r)
Property.
                                   
 
  The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes, will not be an "investment company" or entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
(s)
Investment Company Act.
                                 
 
  Except to the extent that any such failures or deficiencies would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, (i) the Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns which have been required to be filed and have paid all taxes shown thereon and all assessments received by them or any of them to the extent that such taxes have become due and are not being contested in good faith and (ii) except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no tax deficiency which has been asserted or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
(t)
Taxes.
                                   
 
.  Each of the Company and its subsidiaries owns, possesses or has obtained all licenses, permits, certificates, consents, orders, approvals and other
(u)
Conduct of Business
                                
 
authorizations from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all federal, state, local and other governmental authorities (including foreign regulatory agencies), all self-regulatory organizations and all courts and other tribunals, domestic or foreign, necessary to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and to carry on its business as conducted as of the date hereof, except where the failure to so own or possess or to have so obtained or made would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has received any actual notice of any proceeding, relating to the revocation or modification of any such license, permit, certificate, consent, order, approval or other authorization, except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; each of the Company and its subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws and regulations relating to the conduct of its business as conducted as of the date hereof, except where the failure to be in compliance would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the Commission adopted pursuant thereto as such rules and regulations currently apply to the Company and its subsidiaries, except for where the failure to be in compliance would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
  The Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, (iii) are in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or approval, except where such noncompliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such permits, licenses or approvals would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (iv) are not aware of any administrative or judicial action being contemplated by governmental authorities relating to Environmental Laws; neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to any consent decree or compliance or administrative order  issued pursuant to, or are the subject of any pending investigation or litigation under, applicable Environmental Laws except for such actions, decrees, orders or investigations which do not and are not reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on, or cause material changes to, the general affairs, business, prospects, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a party to a governmental proceeding arising under any Environmental Law which involves potential monetary sanctions, exclusive of interests and costs, of $100,000 or more.
(v)
Environmental Compliance.
                                
 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Company reviews the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated costs and liabilities (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties); and, on the basis of such review, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs
(w)
Environmental Costs.
                              
and liabilities would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
  There are no existing or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened labor disputes with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries which are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(x)
No Labor Disputes.
                                  
 
  Each employee benefit plan, within the meaning of Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), that is maintained, administered or contributed to by the Company or any of its affiliates for employees or former employees of the Company and its affiliates has been established and maintained in compliance with its terms and the requirements of any applicable statutes, orders, rules and regulations, including but not limited to ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").  No prohibited transaction, within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code has occurred with respect to any such plan excluding transactions effected pursuant to a statutory or administrative exemption.  For each such plan which is subject to the funding rules of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, no failure by any such plan to satisfy the minimum funding standards (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) has occured, whether or not waived, and the fair market value of the assets of each such plan (excluding for these purposes accrued but unpaid contributions) exceeded the present value of all benefits accrued under such plan determined using reasonable actuarial assumptions.
(y)
Employee Benefits.
                                
 
  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements and the money laundering statutes and the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
(z)
Money Laundering.
                                  
 
.  The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
4.
                                      
Further Agreements of the Company
 
.  The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the
(a)
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
                                 
Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document.  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
 
  During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
(b)
Filing of Amendments.
                                
 
.  The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits).  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(c)
Delivery of Registration Statements
                                 
 
.  The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(d)
Delivery of Prospectuses
                                
 
  The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the
(e)
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws.
                                 
Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
 
  The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit A hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet").  Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
(f)
Final Term Sheet.
                                   
 
  The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus."  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.  The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(f).
(g)
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
                                
 
  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) 
(h)
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form.
                                
promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
 
  The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
(i)
Filing Fees.
                                    
 
  The Company will cooperate with the Representatives to qualify the Notes for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the offering and resale of the Notes; that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
(j)
Blue Sky Compliance.
                                    
provided
 
  During the period from the date hereof through and including the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued by the Company and having a tenor of more than one year.
(k)
Clear Market.
                                 
 
  The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes as described in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds".
(l)
Use of Proceeds.
                                    
 
  The Company will assist the Underwriters in arranging for the Global Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the Depositary.
(m)
DTC.
                              
 
  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Notes.
(n)
No Stabilization.
                                
 
  The Company will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(o)
Filing of Exchange Act Documents.
                                
 
  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase Notes on the Closing Date as provided herein are subject to the performance by the Company of its respective covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
5.
                                      
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations.
 
  The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the
(a)
Representations and Warranties.
                                 
Closing Date; and the statements of the Companyand its officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
 
  Subsequent to the Execution Time, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Notes or any other debt securities or preferred stock issued by the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Notes or of any other debt securities or preferred stock issued by the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
(b)
No Downgrade.
                                
 
  Subsequent to the Execution Time, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(j) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto or any document filed with the Commission after the date hereof and incorporated by reference therein) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(c)
No Material Adverse Change.
                                 
 
  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3 hereof are true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date, (iii) confirming that the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission, (iv) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form, and (v) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) above.
(d)
Officer's Certificate.
                                
 
  On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, Ernst & Young LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to Underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus; provided that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
(e)
Comfort Letters.
                                 
 
  Each of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Reed Smith LLP, as counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, their written opinions, including, in the case of Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, an additional written tax opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives.
(f)
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
                                   
 
  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
(g)
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
                                
 
  No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Notes and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Notes.
(h)
No Legal Impediment to Issuance.
                                
 
.  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company, EQT Capital Corporation, EQT Investments LLC and Equitable Production Company in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
(i)
Good Standing
                                    
 
.  The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
(j)
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
                                    
 
  The Notes shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through the Depositary, Clearstream Banking and the Euroclear System.
(k)
The Depositary.
                                 
 
  On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
(l)
Additional Documents.
                                    
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
 
.
6.
                                      
Indemnification and Contribution
 
.  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
(a)
Indemnification of the Underwriters
                                 
 
.  Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following information in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus:  the third paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus, the second sentence of the first paragraph of text under the subcaption "New Issues of Notes" under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus and the first paragraph of text under the subcaption "Price Stabilization and Short Positions" under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus.
(b)
Indemnification of the Company
                                
 
.  If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against
(c)
Notice and Procedures
                                 
 
whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 6 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such separate firm for any Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
provided
that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 6 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 6.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person
provided
further
 
.  If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Notes and the total discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in connection therewith, as provided in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Notes.  The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(d)
Contribution
                                
 
.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6 were determined by allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6, in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Notes exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 6 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
(e)
Limitation on Liability
                                 
pro
rata
 
.  The remedies provided for in this Section 6 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(f)
Non-Exclusive Remedies
                                   
 
.  This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the Execution Time and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York
7.
                                      
Termination
 
Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) there shall have occurred a material disruption of securities settlement or clearance services; (iv) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
.  (a)  If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Notes that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Notes by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement.  If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Notes, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Notes on such terms.  If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Notes of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus that effects any such changes.  As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 8, purchases Notes that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
8.
                                      
Defaulting Underwriter
 
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Notes of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Notes that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Notes, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's share (based on the principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Notes of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
(b)
                                
pro
rata
 
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Notes of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Notes that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Notes, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters.  Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8 shall be without liability on the part of the Company,
(c)
                                 
 
except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 9 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 6 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
 
Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
(d)
                                
 
.  (a)  Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder, including without limitation, Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Notes under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate(including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters);(ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors and (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement.
9.
                                      
Payment of Expenses
agrees to
(i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Notes and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing of the
and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the documents relating to this offering; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses
and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Survey
 (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Notes; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with the approval of the Notes for book-entry transfer by DTC;
 
If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 7, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Notes for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Notes for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.  Otherwise, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and expenses of their counsel.
(b)
                                
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates, officers and directors of each Underwriter referred to in Section 6 hereof.  Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein.  No purchaser of Notes from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
10.
                                
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
 
.  The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any
11.
                                
Survival
 
certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Notes and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters.
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
12.
                                
Certain Defined Terms
 
.  (a)    Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
13.
                                
Miscellaneous
Authority of the Representatives.
 
.  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representatives c/o Banc of America Securities LLC, 40 West 57 Street, New York, New York 10019 (fax: (212) 901-7881); Attention:  High Grade Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal.  Notices to the Company shall be given to them at Equitable Resources, Inc., 225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212 (fax: 412-553-7700); Attention: Johanna G. O'Loughlin, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
(b)
Notices
                                
th
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
(c)
Governing Law
                                 
 
.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
(d)
Entire Agreement and Counterparts
                                
 
.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
(e)
Amendments or Waivers
                                 
 
.  The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
(f)
Headings
                                   
 
  The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof.  If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
(g)
Partial Unenforceability.
                                
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
 
Accepted:  March 13, 2008
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
LEHMAN BROTHERS INC.
 
For themselves and on behalf of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX I
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
Final Term Sheet dated March 13, 2008
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
 
$500,000,000
 
6.50% Senior Notes due 2018
 
Form of Final Term Sheet
 
March 13, 2008
 
 
Note:  A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com, or by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at 1-877-858-5407 (toll free) or by calling J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 1-212-834-4533 (collect) or by calling Lehman Brothers Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 (toll free).

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
 
INDENTURE
 
Dated as of
 
March 18, 2008
 
 
DEBT SECURITIES
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
 
Trustee
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS *
 
 
*              The Table of Contents is not a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
DENTURE dated as of March 18, 2008, among Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee").
IN
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of unsecured debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities") in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series as provided in this Indenture; and
 
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
 
That, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof for the equal and proportionate benefit of all of the present and future Holders of the Securities, each party agrees and covenants as follows:
 
 
DEFINITIONS
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(a)
          
 
all terms used herein without definition which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein; and
(b)
          
 
the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
(c)
          
 
References to "Article" or "Section" or other subdivision herein are references to an Article, Section or other subdivision of the Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires.
(d)
          
 
Section 1.01          
Definitions.
 
(a)
       
Unless otherwise defined in this Indenture or the context otherwise requires, all terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(b)
       
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Section 1.01(b) shall for all purposes of this Indenture have the meanings hereinafter set forth, the
 
 
following definitions to be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of any of the terms herein defined:
 
Affiliate:
 
The term "Affiliate," with respect to any specified Person shall mean any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person.  For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
Authenticating Agent:
The term "Authenticating Agent" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 11.09.
 
Board of Directors:
 
The term "Board of Directors" shall mean either the board of directors of the Company  or the executive or any other committee of that board duly authorized to act in respect hereof.
 
Board Resolution:
 
The term "Board Resolution" shall mean a copy of a resolution or resolutions certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors (or by a committee of the Board of Directors to the extent that any such other committee has been authorized by the Board of Directors to establish or approve the matters contemplated) and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Trustee.
 
Business Day:
 
The term "Business Day," when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
Capital Stock:
 
The term "Capital Stock" shall mean:
 
(a)
          
in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
 
(b)
          
in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock;
 
(c)
          
in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership interests (whether general or limited) or membership interests; and
 
(d)
          
any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
 
Code:
 
The term "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as in effect on the date hereof.
 
Company:
 
The term "Company" shall mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
Company Order:
 
The term "Company Order" shall mean a written order signed in the name of the Company by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Controller, Assistant Controller, Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
Corporate Trust Office:
 
The term "Corporate Trust Office," or other similar term, shall mean the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 101 Barclay Street, 8W New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust officer of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
 
Currency:
 
The term "Currency" shall mean U.S. Dollars or Foreign Currency.
 
Default:
 
The term "Default" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 11.03.
 
Defaulted Interest:
 
The term "Defaulted Interest" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Section 3.08(b).
 
Depositary:
 
The term "Depositary" shall mean, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, the Person designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any such series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
 
Designated Currency:
 
The term "Designated Currency" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Section 3.12.
 
Discharged:
 
The term "Discharged" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 12.03.
 
Event of Default:
 
The term "Event of Default" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
 
Exchange Act:
 
The term "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Exchange Rate:
 
The term "Exchange Rate" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 7.01.
 
Floating Rate Security:
 
The term "Floating Rate Security" shall mean a Security that provides for the payment of interest at a variable rate determined periodically by reference to an interest rate index specified pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
Foreign Currency:
 
The term "Foreign Currency" shall mean a currency issued by the government of any country other than the United States or a composite currency, the value of which is determined by reference to the values of the currencies of any group of countries and which is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
GAAP:
 
The term "GAAP," with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder, shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in effect in the United States as in effect from time to time, including, without limitation, those set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession.
 
Global Security:
 
The term "Global Security" shall mean any Security that evidences all or part of a series of Securities, issued in fully-registered certificated form to the Depositary for such series in accordance with Section 3.03 and bearing the legend prescribed in Section 3.03(g).
 
Holder; Holder of Securities:
 
The terms "Holder" and "Holder of Securities" are defined under "Securityholder; Holder of Securities; Holder."
 
Holding Company Reorganization
 
The term "Holding Company Reorganization"  shall mean the merger of the Company with a second tier merger subsidiary resulting in a first tier subsidiary holding company becoming the new parent company and the transfer to the new parent company of all the assets and liabilities of the Company other than those associated with the Company's existing Equitable Gas Company division.
 
Indebtedness:
 
The term "Indebtedness" shall mean any and all obligations of a Person for money borrowed which, in accordance with GAAP, would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability on the date as of which Indebtedness is to be determined.
 
Indenture:
 
The term "Indenture" or "this Indenture" shall mean this instrument and all indentures supplemental hereto.
 
Interest:
 
The term "interest" shall mean, with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security that by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, interest payable after Maturity.
 
Interest Payment Date:
 
The term "Interest Payment Date" shall mean, with respect to any Security, the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
 
Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment:
 
The term "Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.01.
 
Maturity:
 
The term "Maturity," with respect to any Security, shall mean the date on which the principal of such Security shall become due and payable as therein and herein provided, whether by declaration, call for redemption or otherwise.
 
Members:
 
The term "Members" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.03(i).
 
ficate:
Officer's Cert
i
 
The term "Officer's Certificate" shall mean a certificate signed by any of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee.  Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 16.01 if and to the extent required by the provisions of such Section.
 
Opinion of Counsel:
 
The term "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or of counsel to the Company, that meets the requirements provided for in Section 16.01.
 
Optional Sinking Fund Payment:
 
The term "Optional Sinking Fund Payment" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.01.
 
Original Issue Discount Security:
 
The term "Original Issue Discount Security" shall mean any Security that is issued with "original issue discount" within the meaning of Section 1273(a) of the Code and the regulations thereunder and any other Security designated by the Company as issued with original issue discount for United States federal income tax purposes.
 
Outstanding:
 
The term "Outstanding," when used with respect to Securities means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
 
(a)
          
Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(b)
          
Securities or portions thereof for which payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities or Securities as to which the Company's obligations have been Discharged; provided, however, that if such Securities or portions thereof are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
 
(c)
          
Securities that have been paid pursuant to Section 3.07(b) or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a protected purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities of a series Outstanding have performed any action hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such action, only Securities of such series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded.  Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.  In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of a series have performed any action hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 7.02 and the principal amount of a Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be the amount calculated pursuant to Section 3.11(b).
 
Paying Agent:
 
The term "Paying Agent" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 6.02(a).
 
Person:
 
The term "Person" shall mean an individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a partnership, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, an unincorporated organization or a government or an agency or political subdivision thereof.
 
Place of Payment:
 
The term "Place of Payment" shall mean, when used with respect to the Securities of any series, the place or places where the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
Predecessor Security:
 
The term "Predecessor Security" shall mean, with respect to any Security, every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security, and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
 
Record Date:
 
The term "Record Date" shall mean, with respect to any interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date, the close of business on any date specified in such Security for the payment of interest pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
Redemption Date:
 
The term "Redemption Date" shall mean, when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture and the terms of such Security, which, in the case of a Floating Rate Security, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01, shall be an Interest Payment Date only.
 
Redemption Price:
 
The term "Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, shall mean the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to the terms of the Security and this Indenture.
 
Register:
 
The term "Register" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.05(a).
 
Registrar:
 
The term "Registrar" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.05(a).
 
Responsible Officers:
 
The term "Responsible Officers" of the Trustee hereunder shall mean any vice president, any assistant vice president, any trust officer, any assistant trust officer or any other officer associated with the corporate trust department of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers, and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
 
SEC:
 
The term "SEC" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as constituted from time to time.
 
Securities Act:
 
The term "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Security:
 
The term "Security" or "Securities" shall have the meaning stated in the recitals and shall more particularly mean one or more of the Securities duly authenticated by the Trustee and delivered pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture.
 
Security Custodian:
 
The term "Security Custodian" shall mean the custodian with respect to any Global Security appointed by the Depositary, or any successor Person thereto, and shall initially be the Paying Agent.
 
Securityholder; Holder of Securities; Holder:
 
The term "Securityholder" or "Holder of Securities" or "Holder," shall mean the Person in whose name Securities shall be registered in the Register kept for that purpose hereunder.
 
Senior Indebtedness:
 
The term "Senior Indebtedness" means the principal of (and premium, if any) and unpaid interest on (x) Indebtedness of the Company, whether outstanding on the date hereof or thereafter created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed, for money borrowed other than (a) any Indebtedness of the Company which when incurred, and without respect to any election under Section 1111(b) of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, was without recourse to the Company, (b) any Indebtedness of the Company to any of its Subsidiaries, (c) Indebtedness to any employee of the Company, (d) any liability for taxes, (e) Trade Payables and (f) any Indebtedness of the Company which is expressly subordinate in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company, and (y) renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such Indebtedness.  For purposes of the foregoing and the definition of "Senior Indebtedness," the phrase
 
"subordinated in right of payment" means debt subordination only and not lien subordination, and accordingly, (i) unsecured indebtedness shall not be deemed to be subordinated in right of payment to secured indebtedness merely by virtue of the fact that it is unsecured, and (ii) junior liens, second liens and other contractual arrangements that provide for priorities among Holders of the same or different issues of indebtedness with respect to any collateral or the proceeds of collateral shall not constitute subordination in right of payment. This definition may be modified or superseded by a supplemental indenture.
 
Special Record Date:
 
The term "Special Record Date" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.08(b)(i).
 
Stated Maturity:
 
The term "Stated Maturity" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of interest thereon, shall mean the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal (or any portion thereof) of or premium, if any, on such Security or such installment of interest is due and payable.
 
Subsidiary:
 
The term "Subsidiary," when used with respect to any Person, shall mean:
 
(a)        any corporation, limited liability company, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency and after giving effect to any voting agreement or stockholders' agreement that effectively transfers voting power) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation, association or other business entity is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof); and
 
(b)        any partnership (i) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person or (ii) the only general partners of which are that Person or one or more Subsidiaries of that Person (or any combination thereof).
 
Successor Company:
 
The term "Successor Company" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.06(i).
 
Trade Payables:
 
The term "Trade Payables" means accounts payable or any other Indebtedness or monetary obligations to trade creditors created or assumed by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in the ordinary course of business (including guarantees thereof or instruments evidencing such liabilities).
Trust Indenture Act; TIA:
 
The term "Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
 
Trustee:
 
The term "Trustee" shall mean the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such with respect to one or more series of Securities pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
 
U.S. Dollars:
 
The term "U.S. Dollars" shall mean such currency of the United States as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
 
U.S. Government Obligations:
 
The term "U.S. Government Obligations" shall mean (i) direct non-callable obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States, in either case, for the payment of which guarantee or obligation the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged.
 
United States:
 
The term "United States" shall mean the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories and its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
 
 
FORMS OF SECURITIES
 
Section 2.01           .
Terms of the Securities
 
(a)        The Securities of each series shall be substantially in the form set forth in a Company Order or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, and shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange on which any series of the Securities may be listed or of any automated quotation system on which any such series may be quoted, or to conform to
 
usage, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
(b)        The terms and provisions of the Securities shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture, and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Section 2.02           .
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
 
(a)        Only such of the Securities as shall bear thereon a certificate substantially in the form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication hereinafter recited, executed by the Trustee by manual signature, shall be valid or become obligatory for any purpose or entitle the Holder thereof to any right or benefit under this Indenture.
 
(b)        Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, except that any Global Security shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated in Section 3.01.
 
(c)        The form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by the Securities shall be substantially as follows:
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
Section 2.03           .  If at any time there shall be an Authenticating Agent appointed with respect to any series of Securities, then the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication by such Authenticating Agent to be borne by Securities of each such series shall be substantially as follows:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication by an Authenticating Agent
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities issued referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
THE DEBT SECURITIES
 
Section 3.01           .  The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series.  There shall be set forth in a Company Order or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
 
(a)        the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of such series from the Securities of all other series, except to the extent that additional Securities of an existing series are being issued);
 
(b)        any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of such series pursuant to Section 3.04, 3.06, 3.07, 4.06, or 14.05);
 
(c)        the dates on which or periods during which the Securities of the series may be issued, and the dates on, or the range of dates within, which the principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of such series are or may be payable or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined or extended;
 
(d)        the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable, and the Record Dates for the determination of Holders to whom interest is payable on such Interest Payment Dates or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the right, if any, to extend or defer interest payments and the duration of such extension or deferral;
 
(e)        if other than U.S. Dollars, the Currency in which Securities of the series shall be denominated or in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of the series shall be payable and any other terms concerning such payment;
 
(f)         if the amount of payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method including, but not limited to, an index based on a Currency or Currencies other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(g)        if the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a Currency other than that in which the Securities are denominated or stated to be payable without such election, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made and the time and the manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency in which the Securities are denominated or payable without such election and the Currency in which the Securities are to be paid if such election is made;
 
(h)        the place or places, if any, in addition to or instead of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, and where Securities of any series may be presented for registration of transfer, exchange or conversion, and the place or places where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series may be made;
 
(i)         the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option;
 
(j)         the obligation or right, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund, amortization or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the Currency or Currencies in which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(k)        if other than denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(l)         if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 7.02;
 
(m)       whether the Securities of the series are to be issued as Original Issue Discount Securities and the amount of discount with which such Securities may be issued;
 
(n)        provisions, if any, for the defeasance of Securities of the series in whole or in part and any addition or change in the provisions related to satisfaction and discharge;
 
(o)        whether the Securities of the series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities and the terms and conditions, if any, upon which interests in such Global Security or Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for the individual Securities represented thereby;
 
(p)        the date as of which any Global Security of the series shall be dated if other than the original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
(q)        the form of the Securities of the series;
 
(r)         if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities or property of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable, and any additions or changes, if any, to permit or facilitate such conversion or exchange;
 
(s)        whether the Securities of such series are subject to subordination and the terms of such subordination;
 
(t)         any restriction or condition on the transferability of the Securities of such series;
 
(u)        any addition or change in the provisions related to compensation and reimbursement of the Trustee which applies to Securities of such series;
 
(v)        any addition or change in the provisions related to supplemental indentures set forth in Sections 14.04 and 14.02 which applies to Securities of such series;
 
(w)       provisions, if any, granting special rights to Holders upon the occurrence of specified events;
 
(x)        any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of  the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 7.02 and any addition or change in the provisions set forth in Article VII which applies to Securities of the series;
 
(y)        any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article VI which applies to Securities of the series; and
 
(z)        any other terms of the Securities of such series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 14.01).
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical, except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided herein or set forth in a Company Order or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto.
 
Section 3.02           .  In the absence of any specification pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable only as Securities in denominations of any integral multiple of $1,000, and shall be payable only in U.S. Dollars.
Denominations
 
Section 3.03           .
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
 
(a)        The Securities shall be executed in the name and on behalf of the Company by the manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Chief Executive Officer, President, one of its Vice Presidents or Treasurer.  If the Person whose
 
signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated and delivered, the Security shall nevertheless be valid.
 
(b)        At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities and, if required pursuant to Section 3.01, a supplemental indenture or Company Order setting forth the terms of the Securities of a series.  The Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver such Securities without any further action by the Company.  The Company Order shall specify the amount of Securities to be authenticated and the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated.
 
(c)        In authenticating the first Securities of any series and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Section 11.02) shall be fully protected in relying upon an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each prepared in accordance with Section 16.01 stating that the conditions precedent, if any, provided for in the Indenture have been complied with.
 
(d)        The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver the Securities under this Section 3.03 if the issue of the Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
(e)        Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(f)         Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 and of this Section 3.03, if all of the Securities of any series are not to be originally issued at the same time, then the documents required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 3.03 must be delivered only once prior to the authentication and delivery of the first Security of such series;
 
(g)        If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 3.01 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities that (i) shall represent an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such Global Securities, (ii) shall be registered, if in registered form, in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities or the nominee of such Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect:
 
"Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for the individual Securities represented hereby, this Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary."
The aggregate principal amount of each Global Security may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Security Custodian, as provided in this Indenture.
 
(h)        Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 3.01 for a Global Security in registered form must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as such Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation.
 
(i)         Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("Members") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary or by the Security Custodian under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar and any of their agents as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Registrar or any of their agents from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Members, the operation of customary practices of the Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of an owner of a beneficial interest in any Global Security.  The Holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Members and Persons that may hold interests through Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
 
(j)         No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in one of the forms provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee or by an Authenticating Agent by manual or facsimile signature of an authorized signatory of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 3.04           .
Temporary Securities
 
(a)        Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities that are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise reproduced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.  Any such temporary Security may be in global form, representing all or a portion of the Outstanding Securities of such series.  Every such temporary Security shall be executed by the Company and shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with the same effect, as the definitive Security or Securities in lieu of which it is issued.
(b)        If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable delay.  After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of such temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for such series, without charge to the Holder.  Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor.  Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
 
(c)        Upon any exchange of a portion of a temporary Global Security for a definitive Global Security or for the individual Securities represented thereby pursuant to this Section 3.04 or Section 3.06, the temporary Global Security shall be endorsed by the Trustee to reflect the reduction of the principal amount evidenced thereby, whereupon the principal amount of such temporary Global Security shall be reduced for all purposes by the amount so exchanged and endorsed.
 
Section 3.05           .
Registrar and Paying Agent
 
(a)        The Company will keep, at an office or agency to be maintained by it in a Place of Payment where Securities may be presented for registration or presented and surrendered for registration of transfer or of exchange, and where Securities of any series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable (the "Registrar"), a security register for the registration and the registration of transfer or of exchange of the Securities (the registers maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Register"), as in this Indenture provided, which Register shall at all reasonable times be open for inspection by the Trustee.  Such Register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time.  The Company may have one or more co-Registrars; the term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar.
 
(b)        The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or co-Registrar not a party to this Indenture.  The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent.  The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent.  If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar for any series, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 11.01.  The Company or any Affiliate thereof may act as Registrar, co-Registrar or transfer agent.
 
(c)        The Company hereby appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Registrar in connection with the Securities and this Indenture, until such time as another Person is appointed as such.
Section 3.06           .
Transfer and Exchange
 
(a)
                       
Transfer.
 
(i)        Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the Registrar the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more new Securities of the same series for like aggregate principal amount of any authorized denomination or denominations.  The transfer of any Security shall not be valid as against the Company or the Trustee unless registered at the Registrar at the request of the Holder, or at the request of his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
(ii)       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for the individual Securities represented thereby, a Global Security representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Depositary or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
 
(b)
                      
Exchange.
 
(i)        At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series (other than a Global Security, except as set forth below) may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series for like aggregate principal amount of any authorized denomination or denominations, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at the Registrar.
 
(ii)       Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
(c)
                       
Exchange of Global Securities for Individual Securities.  Except as provided below, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive individual Securities.
 
(i)        Individual Securities shall be issued to all owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security in exchange for such interests if: (A) at any time the Depositary for the Securities of a series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series or if at any time the Depositary for the Securities of such series shall no longer be eligible under Section 3.03(h) and, in each case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice, or (B) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee and the Registrar an Officer's Certificate stating that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable.
 
In connection with the exchange of an entire Global Security for individual Securities pursuant to this subsection (c), such Global Security shall be
 
deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of individual Securities of authorized denominations.
 
(ii)   The owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to receive an individual Security in exchange for such interest if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.  Upon receipt by the Security Custodian and Registrar of instructions from the Holder of a Global Security directing the Security Custodian and Registrar to (x) issue one or more individual Securities in the amounts specified to the owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Security and (y) debit or cause to be debited an equivalent amount of beneficial interest in such Global Security, subject to the rules and regulations of the Depositary:
 
(A)      the Security Custodian and Registrar shall notify the Company and the Trustee of such instructions, identifying the owner and amount of such beneficial interest in such Global Security;
 
(B)       the Company shall promptly execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of such series, shall authenticate and deliver to such beneficial owner individual Securities in an equivalent amount to such beneficial interest in such Global Security; and
 
(C)       the Security Custodian and Registrar shall decrease such Global Security by such amount in accordance with the foregoing.  In the event that the individual Securities are not issued to each such beneficial owner promptly after the Registrar has received a request from the Holder of a Global Security to issue such individual Securities, the Company expressly acknowledges, with respect to the right of any Holder to pursue a remedy pursuant to Section 7.07 hereof, the right of any beneficial Holder of Securities to pursue such remedy with respect to the portion of the Global Security that represents such beneficial Holder's Securities as if such individual Securities had been issued.
 
(iii)  If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 with respect to a series of Securities, the Depositary for such series of Securities may surrender a Global Security for such series of Securities in exchange in whole or in part for individual Securities of such series on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary.  Thereupon, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge,
 
 
(A)      to each Person specified by such Depositary a new individual Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Global Security; and
 
(B)       to such Depositary a new Global Security in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Security and the aggregate principal amount of individual Securities delivered to Holders thereof.
 
(iv)  In any exchange provided for in clauses (i) through (iii), the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver individual Securities in registered form in authorized denominations.
 
(v)   Upon the exchange in full of a Global Security for individual Securities, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee.  Individual Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee.  The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
 
(d)        All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Company evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered for such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(e)        Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, or for exchange or payment shall (if so required by the Company, the Trustee or the Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or by his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
(f)         No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities.  The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than those expressly provided in this Indenture to be made at the Company's own expense or without expense or charge to the Holders.
 
(g)        The Company shall not be required to (i) register, transfer or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the transmission of a notice of redemption of Securities of such
series selected for redemption under Section 4.03 and ending at the close of business on the day of such
 
 
transmission, or (ii) register, transfer or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
 
(h)        Prior to the due presentation for registration of transfer or exchange of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or any of their agents may deem and treat the Person in whose name a Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for all purposes whatsoever, and none of the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar, any co-Registrar or any of their agents shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
(i)         In case a successor Company ("Successor Company") has executed an indenture supplemental hereto with the Trustee pursuant to Article XIV, any of the Securities authenticated or delivered pursuant to such transaction may, from time to time, at the request of the Successor Company, be exchanged for other Securities executed in the name of the Successor Company with such changes in phraseology and form as may be appropriate, but otherwise identical to the Securities surrendered for such exchange and of like principal amount; and the Trustee, upon Company Order of the Successor Company, shall authenticate and deliver Securities as specified in such order for the purpose of such exchange.  If Securities shall at any time be authenticated and delivered in any new name of a Successor Company pursuant to this Section 3.06 in exchange or substitution for or upon registration of transfer of any Securities, such Successor Company, at the option of the Holders but without expense to them, shall provide for the exchange of all Securities at the time Outstanding for Securities authenticated and delivered in such new name.
 
(j)         Each Holder of a Security agrees to indemnify the Company and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Security in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities laws.
 
(k)        The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
(l)         Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
 
Section 3.07           .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
 
(a)        If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office or (ii) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to them to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless, and neither the Company nor the Trustee receives notice that such Security has been
 
acquired by a protected purchaser, then the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor, form, terms and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, that neither gain nor loss in interest shall result from such exchange or substitution.
 
(b)        In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay the amount due on such Security in accordance with its terms.
 
(c)        Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in respect thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
(d)        Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
 
(e)        The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
Section 3.08           .
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
 
(a)        Interest on any Security that is payable and is punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest notwithstanding the cancellation of such Security upon any transfer or exchange subsequent to the Record Date.  Payment of interest on Securities shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01) or, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Register or, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee, by wire transfer to an account designated by the Holder.
 
(b)        Any interest on any Security that is payable but is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Record Date by virtue of his, her or its having been such a Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (i) or (ii) below:
 
(i)        The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest (a "Special Record Date"), which shall be fixed in the following manner.  The Company shall notify the Trustee in
 
writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided.  Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 calendar days and not less than 10 calendar days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Holders of such Securities at their addresses as they appear in the Register, not less than 10 calendar days prior to such Special Record Date.  Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (ii).
 
(ii)   The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
(c)        Subject to the provisions set forth herein relating to Record Dates, each Security delivered pursuant to any provision of this Indenture in exchange or substitution for, or upon registration of transfer of, any other Security shall carry all the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
Section 3.09           .  Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, all Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or credit against any sinking fund or otherwise shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and shall be promptly canceled by it and, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly canceled by it.  The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder that the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee.  No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture.  The Trustee shall dispose of all canceled Securities held by it in accordance with its then customary procedures and deliver a certificate of such disposal to the Company upon its request therefor.  The acquisition of any Securities by the
Cancellation
 
Company shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the Indebtedness represented thereby unless and until such Securities are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
Section 3.10           .  Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
 
Section 3.11           .
Currency of Payments in Respect of Securities
 
(a)        Except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on Securities of such series will be made in U.S. Dollars.
 
(b)        For purposes of any provision of the Indenture where the Holders of Outstanding Securities may perform an action that requires that a specified percentage of the Outstanding Securities of all series perform such action and for purposes of any decision or determination by the Trustee of amounts due and unpaid for the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of all series in respect of which moneys are to be disbursed ratably, the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Outstanding Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency will be the amount in U.S. Dollars based upon exchange rates, determined as specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of such series, as of the date for determining whether the Holders entitled to perform such action have performed it or as of the date of such decision or determination by the Trustee, as the case may be.
 
(c)        Any decision or determination to be made regarding exchange rates shall be made by an agent appointed by the Company; provided, that such agent shall accept such appointment in writing and the terms of such appointment shall, in the opinion of the Company at the time of such appointment, require such agent to make such determination by a method consistent with the method provided pursuant to Section 3.01 for the making of such decision or determination.  All decisions and determinations of such agent regarding exchange rates shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company, the Trustee and all Holders of the Securities.
 
Section 3.12           .  The Company may provide pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of any series that (a) the obligation, if any, of the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of any series in a Foreign Currency or U.S. Dollars (the "Designated Currency") as may be specified pursuant to Section 3.01 is of the essence and agrees that, to the fullest extent possible under applicable law, judgments in respect of such Securities shall be given in the Designated Currency; (b) the obligation of the Company to make payments in the Designated Currency of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities shall, notwithstanding any payment in any other Currency (whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise), be discharged only to the extent of the amount in the Designated Currency that the Holder receiving such payment may, in accordance with normal banking procedures, purchase with the sum paid in such other Currency (after any premium and cost of exchange) on the business day in the country of issue of the Designated Currency or in the international banking community (in the case of a composite currency) immediately following the day on which such Holder receives such payment; (c) if the amount in the
Judgments
 
Designated Currency that may be so purchased for any reason falls short of the amount originally due, the Company shall pay such additional amounts as may be necessary to compensate for such shortfall; and (d) any obligation of the Company  not discharged by such payment shall be due as a separate and independent obligation and, until discharged as provided herein, shall continue in full force and effect.
 
Section 3.13           .  The Company in issuing any Securities may use CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, if then generally in use, and thereafter with respect to such series, the Trustee may use such numbers in any notice of redemption or exchange with respect to such series provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
 
 
REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES
 
Section 4.01           . Redemption of Securities (other than pursuant to a sinking fund, amortization or analogous provision) permitted by the terms of any series of Securities shall be made (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if any such terms of a series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the terms of such series shall govern.
Applicability of Right of Redemption
 
Section 4.02           .
Selection of Securities to be Redeemed
 
(a)        If the Company shall at any time elect to redeem all or any portion of the Securities of a series then Outstanding, it shall at least 30 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select, by lot or in such other manner as the Trustee shall deem appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series; provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.  In any case where more than one Security of such series is registered in the same name, the Trustee may treat the aggregate principal amount so registered as if it were represented by one Security of such series.  The Trustee shall, as soon as practicable, notify the Company in writing of the Securities and portions of Securities so selected.
 
(b)        For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security that has been or is to be redeemed.  If the Company shall so direct, Securities registered in the
 
name of the Company, any Affiliate or any Subsidiary thereof shall not be included in the Securities selected for redemption.
 
Section 4.03           .
Notice of Redemption
 
(a)        Notice of redemption shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request made at least five Business Days prior to the date notice is to be given, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to the Holders of Securities of any series to be redeemed in whole or in part pursuant to this Article, in the manner provided in Section 16.04.  Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice.  Failure to give such notice, or any defect in such notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption, in whole or in part, shall not affect the sufficiency of any notice of redemption with respect to the Holder of any other Security of such series.
 
(b)
                      
All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed (including CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, if available) and shall state:
 
(i)        such election by the Company to redeem Securities of such series pursuant to provisions contained in this Indenture or the terms of the Securities of such series or a supplemental indenture establishing such series, if such be the case;
(ii)       the Redemption Date;
 
(iii)      the Redemption Price;
 
(iv)     if less than all Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the Securities of such series to be redeemed;
 
(v)      that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed, and that, if applicable, interest thereon shall cease to accrue on and after said date;
 
(vi)     the Place or Places of Payment where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; and
 
(vii)    that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case;
 
Section 4.04           .  On or prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Redemption Date for any Securities, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 6.03) an amount of money in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (except as provided pursuant to Section 3.01) sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of such Securities or any portions thereof that are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
Section 4.05           .  Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, any Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price and from and after such date (unless the Company shall Default in the payment of the Redemption Price) such Securities shall cease to bear interest.  Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price; provided, however, that (unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.01) installments of interest that have a Stated Maturity on or prior to the Redemption Date for such Securities shall be payable according to the terms of such Securities and the provisions of Section 3.08.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal thereof and premium, if any, thereon shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
 
Section 4.06           .  Any Security that is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the Corporate Trust Office or such other office or agency of the Company as is specified pursuant to Section 3.01 with, if the Company, the Registrar or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Registrar and the Trustee duly executed by the Holder thereof or his, her or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of like tenor and form, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered; except that if a Global Security is so surrendered, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Security, without service charge, a new Global Security in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Security so surrendered.  In the case of a Security providing appropriate space for such notation, at the option of the Holder thereof, the Trustee, in lieu of delivering a new Security or Securities as aforesaid, may make a notation on such Security of the payment of the redeemed portion thereof.
Securities Redeemed in Part
 
 
SINKING FUNDS
 
Section 5.01           .
Applicability of Sinking Fund
 
(a)        Redemption of Securities permitted or required pursuant to a sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series by the terms of such series of Securities shall be made in accordance with such terms of such series of Securities and this Article, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of such series, provided, however, that if any such terms of a series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the terms of such series shall govern.
 
(b)        The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment,"
 
and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "Optional Sinking Fund Payment."  If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 5.02.
 
Section 5.02           .  The Company may, at its option, satisfy any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation, in whole or in part, with respect to a particular series of Securities by (a) delivering to the Trustee Securities of such series in transferable form theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company or redeemed at the election of the Company pursuant to Section 4.03 or (b) receiving credit for Securities of such series (not previously so credited) acquired by the Company and theretofore delivered to the Trustee.  The Trustee shall credit such Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation with an amount equal to the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment shall be reduced accordingly.  If the Company shall elect to so satisfy any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation, it shall deliver to the Trustee not less than 45 days prior to the relevant sinking fund payment date a written notice signed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents, its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, which shall designate the Securities (and portions thereof, if any) so delivered or credited and which shall be accompanied by such Securities (to the extent not theretofore delivered) in transferable form.  In case of the failure of the Company, at or before the time so required, to give such notice and deliver such Securities the Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation shall be paid entirely in moneys.
Mandatory Sinking Fund Obligation
 
Section 5.03           .  In addition to the sinking fund requirements of Section 5.02, to the extent, if any, provided for by the terms of a particular series of Securities, the Company may, at its option, make an Optional Sinking Fund Payment with respect to such Securities.  Unless otherwise provided by such terms, (a) to the extent that the right of the Company to make such Optional Sinking Fund Payment shall not be exercised in any year, it shall not be cumulative or carried forward to any subsequent year, and (b) such optional payment shall operate to reduce the amount of any Mandatory Sinking Fund Payment obligation as to Securities of the same series.  If the Company intends to exercise its right to make such optional payment in any year it shall deliver to the Trustee not less than 45 days prior to the relevant sinking fund payment date a certificate signed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents, its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers stating that the Company will exercise such optional right, and specifying the amount which the Company will pay on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date.  Such certificate shall also state that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Optional Redemption at Sinking Fund Redemption Price
 
Section 5.04           .
Application of Sinking Fund Payment
 
(a)        If the sinking fund payment or payments made in funds pursuant to either Section 5.02 or 5.03 with respect to a particular series of Securities plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in funds with respect to such series shall exceed $100,000 (or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request, or such equivalent sum for Securities denominated other than in U.S. Dollars), it shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund payment date next following the date of such payment, unless the date of such
 
payment shall be a sinking fund payment date, in which case such payment shall be applied on such sinking fund payment date, to the redemption of Securities of such series at the redemption price specified pursuant to Section 4.03(b).  The Trustee shall select, in the manner provided in Section 4.02, for redemption on such sinking fund payment date, a sufficient principal amount of Securities of such series to absorb said funds, as nearly as may be, and shall, at the expense and in the name of the Company, thereupon cause notice of redemption of the Securities to be given in substantially the manner provided in Section 4.03(a) for the redemption of Securities in part at the option of the Company, except that the notice of redemption shall also state that the Securities are being redeemed for the sinking fund.  Any sinking fund moneys not so applied by the Trustee to the redemption of Securities of such series shall be added to the next sinking fund payment received in funds by the Trustee and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.04.  Any and all sinking fund moneys held by the Trustee on the last sinking fund payment date with respect to Securities of such series, and not held for the payment or redemption of particular Securities of such series, shall be applied by the Trustee to the payment of the principal of the Securities of such series at Maturity.
 
(b)        On or prior to each sinking fund payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee a sum equal to all interest accrued to but not including the date fixed for redemption on Securities to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 5.04.
 
(c)        The Trustee shall not redeem any Securities of a series with sinking fund moneys or mail any notice of redemption of Securities of such series by operation of the sinking fund during the continuance of a Default in payment of interest on any Securities of such series or of any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default occurring as a consequence of this paragraph) of which the Trustee has actual knowledge, except that if the notice of redemption of any Securities of such series shall theretofore have been mailed in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Trustee shall redeem such Securities if funds sufficient for that purpose shall be deposited with the Trustee in accordance with the terms of this Article.  Except as aforesaid, any moneys in the sinking fund at the time any such Default or Event of Default shall occur and any moneys thereafter paid into the sinking fund shall, during the continuance of such Default or Event of Default, be held as security for the payment of all the Securities of such series; provided, however, that in case such Default or Event of Default shall have been cured or waived as provided herein, such moneys shall thereafter be applied on the next sinking fund payment date on which such moneys are required to be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.04.
 
 
PARTICULAR COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY
 
The Company hereby covenants and agrees as follows:
 
Section 6.01           .  The Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of and premium, if any, on each series of Securities, and the interest which shall have accrued thereon, at the dates and place and in the manner provided in the Securities and in this Indenture.
Payments of Securities
Section 6.02           .
Paying Agent
 
(a)        The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities, if any, an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of such series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served (the "Paying Agent").  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency.  If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as Paying Agent to receive all presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
(b)        The Company may also from time to time designate different or additional offices or agencies where the Securities of any series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes (in or outside of such Place of Payment), and may from time to time rescind any such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations described in the preceding paragraph.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such additional designation or rescission of designation and of any change in the location of any such different or additional office or agency.  The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Paying Agent not a party to this Indenture.  The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent.  The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent.  The Company or any Affiliate thereof may act as Paying Agent.
 
Section 6.03           .
To Hold Payment in Trust
 
(a)        If the Company or an Affiliate thereof shall at any time act as Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, then, on or before the date on which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series by their terms or as a result of the calling thereof for redemption shall become payable, the Company or such Affiliate will segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities or the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay such principal and premium, if any, or interest which shall have so become payable until such sums shall be paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will notify the Trustee of its action or failure to act in that regard.  Upon any proceeding under any federal bankruptcy laws with respect to the Company or any Affiliate thereof, if the Company or such Affiliate is then acting as Paying Agent, the Trustee shall replace the Company or such Affiliate as Paying Agent.
 
(b)        If the Company shall appoint, and at the time have, a Paying Agent for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any series of Securities, then prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date on which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series shall become payable as aforesaid, whether by their terms or as a result of the calling thereof for redemption, the Company will deposit with such Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal and premium, if any, or interest, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities or the Trustee, and (unless
 
such Paying Agent is the Trustee), the Company or any other obligor of such Securities will promptly notify the Trustee of its payment or failure to make such payment.
 
(c)
                       
If the Paying Agent shall be other than the Trustee, the Company will cause such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 6.03, that such Paying Agent shall:
 
(i)        hold all moneys held by it for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities until such sums shall be paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
 
(ii)       give to the Trustee notice of any Default by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series in the making of any payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of that series; and
 
(iii)      at any time during the continuance of any such Default, upon the written request of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
 
(d)
                      
Anything in this Section 6.03 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a release, satisfaction or discharge of this Indenture or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee as required by this Section 6.03, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent.
 
(e)
                       
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company upon Company Order along with any interest that has accumulated thereon as a result of such money being invested at the direction of the Company, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust, and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment of such amounts without interest thereon, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
Section 6.04           .  Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities:
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets
 
(a)        The Company will not consolidate with any other entity or accept a merger of any other entity into the Company or permit the Company to be merged into any other entity, or sell other than for cash or lease its assets substantially as an entirety to another entity, or purchase the assets of another entity substantially as an entirety, unless (i) either the Company shall be the continuing entity, or the successor, transferee or lessee entity (if other than the Company) shall expressly assume, by indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered by such entity prior to or simultaneously with such consolidation, merger, sale or lease, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on all the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all other obligations to the Holders and the Trustee under this Indenture or under the Securities to be performed or observed by the Company; and (ii) immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale, lease or purchase the Company or the successor, transferee or lessee entity (if other than the Company) would not be in Default in the performance of any covenant or condition of this Indenture.  A purchase by a Subsidiary of the assets of another entity substantially as an entirety shall not be deemed to be a purchase of such assets by the Company.
 
(b)        Upon any consolidation with or merger into any other entity, or any sale other than for cash, or any conveyance or lease of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with this Section 6.04, the successor entity formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which the Company is sold or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor entity had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Company shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities, and from time to time such entity may exercise each and every right and power of the Company under this Indenture, in the name of the Company, or in its own name; and any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture required or permitted to be done by the Board of Directors or any officer of the Company may be done with like force and effect by the like board or officer of any entity that shall at the time be the successor of the Company hereunder.  In the event of any such sale or conveyance, but not any such lease, the Company (or any successor entity which shall theretofore have become such in the manner described in this Section 6.04) shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and may thereupon be dissolved and liquidated.
 
(c)        For purposes of this Section 6.04, the transfer by the Company of all of its assets, other than certain assets associated with the Company's gas company division, to a newly formed holding company in connection with the Holding Company Reorganization shall be deemed to be a conveyance of the assets of the Company substantially as an entirety to the newly formed holding company.
 
Section 6.05           .  Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee annually, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or vice president and
Compliance Certificate
 
treasurer as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture (which compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture) and, in the event of any Default, specifying each such Default and the nature and status thereof of which such person may have knowledge.  Such certificates need not comply with Section 16.01 of this Indenture.
 
Section 6.06           .  Anything in this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may fail or omit in any particular instance to comply with a covenant or condition set forth herein with respect to any series of Securities if the Company shall have obtained and filed with the Trustee, prior to the time of such failure or omission, evidence (as provided in Article VIII) of the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding, either waiving such compliance in such instance or generally waiving compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, or impair any right consequent thereon and, until such waiver shall have become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Conditional Waiver by Holders of Securities
 
Section 6.07           .  The Company shall deliver to the Trustee as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officer's Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
Statement by Officers as to Default
 
 
REMEDIES OF TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS
 
Section 7.01           .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context or where the term is otherwise defined for a specific purpose, the term "Event of Default" as used in this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series shall mean one of the following described events unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in the manner contemplated in Section 3.01:
Events of Default
 
(a)        the failure of the Company to pay any installment of interest on any Security of such series when and as the same shall become payable, which failure shall have continued unremedied for a period of 30 days;
 
(b)        the failure of the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Security of such series, when and as the same shall become payable, whether at Maturity as therein expressed, by call for redemption (otherwise than pursuant to a sinking fund), by declaration as authorized by this Indenture or otherwise;
 
(c)        the failure of the Company to pay a sinking fund installment, if any, when and as the same shall become payable by the terms of a Security of such series, which failure shall have continued unremedied for a period of 30 days;
(d)        the failure of the Company, subject to the provisions of Section 6.06, to perform any covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture (including any indenture supplemental hereto pursuant to which the Securities of such series were issued as contemplated by Section 3.01) (other than a covenant or agreement which has been expressly included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than that series and other than a covenant or agreement a default in the performance of which is elsewhere in this Section 7.01 specifically addressed), which failure shall not have been remedied, or without provision deemed to be adequate for the remedying thereof having been made, for a period of 90 days after written notice shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee or shall have been given to the Company and the Trustee by Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, specifying such failure, requiring the Company to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
 
(e)        the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or of substantially all the property of the Company or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days;
 
(f)         the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or the consent by the Company to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or the consent by the Company to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or of substantially all the property of the Company or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any action; or
 
(g)        the occurrence of any other Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series as provided in Section 3.01;
 
provided, however, that no event described in clause (d) or, with respect to any Event of Default in addition to those provided above pursuant to Section 3.01 (other than with respect to a payment default), (g) above shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder until a Responsible Officer assigned to and working in the Trustee's corporate trust department has actual knowledge thereof or until a written notice of any such event is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office, and such notice refers to the facts underlying such event, the Securities generally, the Company and the Indenture.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.01, if the principal or any premium or interest on any Security is payable in a Currency other than the Currency of the United States and such Currency is not available to the Company for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the
 
Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making such payment in the Currency of the United States in an amount equal to the Currency of the United States equivalent of the amount payable in such other Currency, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such Currency ("Exchange Rate"), as such Exchange Rate is reported or otherwise made available by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.01, any payment made under such circumstances in the Currency of the United States where the required payment is in a Currency other than the Currency of the United States will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
 
Section 7.02           .
Acceleration; Rescission and Annulment
 
(a)        Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, if any one or more of the above-described Events of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(e) or 7.01(f)) shall happen with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, then, and in each and every such case, during the continuance of any such Event of Default, the Trustee or the Holders of 25% or more in principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding may declare the principal (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Securities of such series then Outstanding to be due and payable immediately by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.  If an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(e) or 7.01(f) occurs and is continuing, then in every such case, the principal amount of all of the Securities of that series then Outstanding shall automatically, and without any declaration or any other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become due and payable immediately.  Upon payment of such amounts in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (subject to Section 7.01 and except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.01), all obligations of the Company in respect of the payment of principal of and interest on the Securities of such series shall terminate.
 
(b)        The provisions of Section 7.02(a), however, are subject to the condition that, at any time after the principal of all the Securities of such series, to which any one or more of the above-described Events of Default is applicable, shall have been so declared to be due and payable, and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided in this Article, the Event of Default giving rise to such declaration of acceleration shall, without further act, be deemed to have been waived, and such declaration and its consequences shall, without further act, be deemed to have been rescinded and annulled, if:
 
(i)    the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent a sum in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (subject to Section 7.01 and except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.01) sufficient to pay
(A)      all amounts owing the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 11.01(a) (provided, however, that all sums payable under this clause (A) shall be paid in U.S. Dollars);
 
(B)       all arrears of interest, if any, upon all the Securities of such series (with interest, to the extent that interest thereon shall be legally enforceable, on any overdue installment of interest at the rate borne by such Securities at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities); and
 
(C)       the principal of and premium, if any, on any Securities of such series that have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon;
 
(ii)   every other Default and Event of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 7.06.
 
(c)        No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
(d)        For all purposes under this Indenture, if a portion of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Securities shall have been accelerated and declared due and payable pursuant to the provisions hereof, then, from and after such declaration, unless such declaration has been rescinded and annulled, the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Securities shall be deemed, for all purposes hereunder, to be such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, and payment of such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, together with interest, if any, thereon and all other amounts owing thereunder, shall constitute payment in full of such Original Issue Discount Securities.
 
Section 7.03           .  If the Company shall fail for a period of 30 days to pay any installment of interest on the Securities of any series or shall fail to pay the principal of and premium, if any, on any of the Securities of such series when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Maturity, or by call for redemption (other than pursuant to the sinking fund), by declaration as authorized by this Indenture, or otherwise, or shall fail for a period of 30 days to make any required sinking fund payment as to a series of Securities, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Paying Agent for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series then Outstanding the whole amount which then shall have become due and payable on all the Securities of such series, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (so far as the same may be legally enforceable) on the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Securities of such series, and all amounts owing the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 11.01(a).
Other Remedies
 
In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceeding at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, wherever situated, in the manner provided by law.  Every recovery of judgment in any such action or other proceeding, subject to the payment to the Trustee of all amounts owing the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 11.01(a), shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities which shall be the subject of such action or proceeding.  All rights of action upon or under any of the Securities or this Indenture may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities and without the production of any thereof at any trial or any proceeding relative thereto.
 
Section 7.04           .  The Trustee is hereby appointed, and each and every Holder of the Securities, by receiving and holding the same, shall be conclusively deemed to have appointed the Trustee, the true and lawful attorney-in-fact of such Holder, with authority to make or file (whether or not the Company shall be in Default in respect of the payment of the principal of, or interest on, any of the Securities), in its own name and as trustee of an express trust or otherwise as it shall deem advisable, in any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or to their respective creditors or property, any and all claims, proofs of claim, proofs of debt, petitions, consents, other papers and documents and amendments of any thereof, as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder and of the Holders of the Securities allowed in any such proceeding and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to execute and deliver any and all other papers and documents and to do and perform any and all other acts and things, as it may deem necessary or advisable in order to enforce in any such proceeding any of the claims of the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder and of any of such Holders in respect of any of the Securities; and any receiver, assignee, trustee, custodian or debtor in any such proceeding is hereby authorized, and each and every taker or Holder of the Securities, by receiving and holding the same, shall be conclusively deemed to have authorized any such receiver, assignee, trustee, custodian or debtor, to make any such payment or delivery only to or on the order of the Trustee, and to pay to the Trustee any amount due it and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 11.01(a); provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize or empower the Trustee to consent to or accept or adopt, on behalf of any Holder of Securities, any plan of reorganization or readjustment affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize or empower the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder of any Securities in any such proceeding.
Trustee as Attorney-in-Fact
 
Section 7.05           .  Any moneys or properties collected by the Trustee with respect to a series of Securities under this Article VII shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such moneys or properties and, in the case of the distribution of such moneys or properties on account of the Securities of any series, upon
Priorities
 
 
presentation of the Securities of such series, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
 
First: To the payment of all amounts due to the Trustee and any predecessor trustee hereunder under Section 11.01(a).
 
Second: In case the principal of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall not have become due and be unpaid, to the payment of interest on the Securities of such series, in the chronological order of the Maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by such Securities, such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto.
 
Third: In case the principal of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon the Securities of such series for principal and premium, if any, and interest, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Securities of such series, and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amounts so due and unpaid upon the Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal and premium, if any, and interest without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, or of interest over principal and premium, if any, or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of any Security of such series over any other Security of such series, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest.
 
Any surplus then remaining shall be paid to the Company or as directed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
Section 7.06           .  The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee hereunder, or of exercising any trust or power hereby conferred upon the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series, provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Sections 11.01 and 11.02, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee being advised by counsel determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken or would be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining in such direction or would involve the Trustee in personal liability.  Prior to any declaration accelerating the Maturity of the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such series of Securities at the time Outstanding may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Securities of such series waive any past Default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences except a Default in the payment of interest or any premium on or the principal of the Securities of such series.  Upon any such waiver the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.  Whenever any Default or Event of Default hereunder shall have been waived as
Control by Securityholders; Waiver of Past Defaults
 
permitted by this Section 7.06, said Default or Event of Default shall for all purposes of the Securities of such series and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing.
 
Section 7.07           .  No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any action, suit or proceeding at law or in equity for the execution of any trust hereunder or for the appointment of a receiver or for any other remedy hereunder, in each case with respect to an Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities, unless such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of one or more of the Events of Default herein specified with respect to such series of Securities, and unless also the Holders of 25% in principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have requested the Trustee in writing to take action in respect of the matter complained of, and unless also there shall have been offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee, for 60 days after receipt of such notification, request and offer of indemnity, shall have neglected or refused to institute any such action, suit or proceeding; and such notification, request and offer of indemnity are hereby declared in every such case to be conditions precedent to any such action, suit or proceeding by any Holder of any Security of such series; it being understood and intended that no one or more of the Holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by his, her, its or their action to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and that every action, suit or proceeding at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained in the manner herein provided and for the equal benefit of all Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series; provided, however, that nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities of such series shall affect or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of such series to the respective Holders of such Securities at the respective due dates in such Securities stated, or affect or impair the right, which is also absolute and unconditional, of such Holders to institute suit to enforce the payment thereof.
Limitation on Suits
 
Section 7.08           .  All parties to this Indenture and each Holder of any Security, by such Holder's acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have agreed that any court may in its discretion require, in any action, suit or proceeding for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any action, suit or proceeding against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such action, suit or proceeding of an undertaking to pay the costs of such action, suit or proceeding, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such action, suit or proceeding, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section 7.08 shall not apply to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee, to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by any one or more Holders of Securities holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Securities of any series Outstanding, or to any action, suit or proceeding instituted by any Holder of Securities of any series for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or the interest on, any of the Securities of such series, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Securities.
Undertaking for Costs
Section 7.09           .  No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities of any series is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute.  No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of the Securities of any series to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Default or Event of Default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Default or Event of Default or an acquiescence therein; and every power and remedy given by this Article VII to the Trustee and to the Holders of Securities of any series, respectively, may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities of such series, as the case may be.  In case the Trustee or any Holder of Securities of any series shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and the proceedings for the enforcement thereof shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of waiver or for any other reason or shall have been adjudicated adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder of Securities, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall severally and respectively be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, and thereafter all rights, remedies and powers of the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities of such series shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken, except as to any matters so waived or adjudicated.
Remedies Cumulative
 
 
Section 8.01           .  Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage or a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities or of any series of Securities may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage or majority have joined therein may be evidenced by (a) any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Securityholders in person, by an agent or by a  proxy appointed in writing, including through an electronic system for tabulating consents operated by the Depositary for such series or otherwise (such action becoming effective, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, when such instruments or evidence of electronic consents are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company), or (b) by the record of the Holders of Securities voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Securityholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article IX, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Securityholders.
Evidence of Action of Securityholders
 
Section 8.02           .  Proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder or his, her or its agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:
Proof of Execution or Holding of Securities
 
(a)        The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument may be proved (i) by the certificate of any notary public or other officer in any jurisdiction who, by the laws thereof, has power to take acknowledgments or proof of deeds to be recorded within such jurisdiction, that the Person who signed such instrument did acknowledge before such
notary public or other officer the execution thereof, or (ii) by the affidavit of a witness of such execution sworn to before any such notary or other officer.  Where such execution is by a Person acting in other than his or her individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his or her authority.
 
(b)
                      
The ownership of Securities of any series shall be proved by the Register of such Securities or by a certificate of the Registrar for such series.
 
(c)
                       
The record of any Holders' meeting shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 9.06.
 
(d)
                      
The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section 8.02 as it shall deem appropriate or necessary, so long as the request is a reasonable one.
 
(e)        If the Company shall solicit from the Holders of Securities of any series any action, the Company may, at its option fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders of Securities entitled to take such action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so.  Any such record date shall be fixed at the Company's discretion.  If such a record date is fixed, such action may be sought or given before or after the record date, but only the Holders of Securities of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders of Securities for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of such series have authorized or agreed or consented to such action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of such series shall be computed as of such record date.
 
Section 8.03           .
Persons Deemed Owners
 
(a)        The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and premium, if any, and (subject to Section 3.08) interest, if any, on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.  All payments made to any Holder, or upon his, her or its order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon such Security.
 
(b)        None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
 
Section 8.04           .  After an amendment, supplement, waiver or other action becomes effective as to any series of Securities, a consent to it by a Holder of such series of Securities is a continuing consent conclusive and binding upon such Holder and every subsequent Holder of the same Securities or portion thereof, and of any Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in place thereof, even if notation of the consent is not
Effect of Consents
 
made on any such Security.   An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
ARTICLE IX
SECURITYHOLDERS' MEETINGS
 
Section 9.01           .  A meeting of Securityholders of any or all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article IX for any of the following purposes:
Purposes of Meetings
 
(a)        to give any notice to the Company or to the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to consent to the waiving of any Default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Securityholders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article VIII;
 
(b)        to remove the Trustee and nominate a successor trustee pursuant to the provisions of Article XI;
 
(c)        to consent to the execution of an Indenture or of indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 14.02; or
 
(d)        to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any one or more or all series, as the case may be, under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
 
Section 9.02           .  The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of all Securityholders of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken, to take any action specified in Section 9.01, to be held at such time and at such place as the Trustee shall determine.  Notice of every meeting of the Securityholders of a series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be mailed to Holders of Securities of such series at their addresses as they shall appear on the Register of the Company.  Such notice shall be mailed not less than 20 nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call of Meetings by Trustee
 
Section 9.03           .  In case at any time the Company or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a series (or of all series, as the case may be) then Outstanding that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of Securityholders of such series (or of all series), by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed the notice of such meeting within 20 days after receipt of such request, then the Company or such Securityholders may determine the time and the place for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 9.01, by mailing notice thereof as provided in Section 9.02.
Call of Meetings by Company or Securityholders
 
Section 9.04           .  To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Securityholders, a Person shall (a) be a Holder of one or more Securities affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting or (b) be a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as
Qualifications for Voting
 
proxy by a Holder of one or more such Securities.  The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Securityholders shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
 
Section 9.05           .
Regulation of Meetings
 
(a)        Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Securityholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem fit.
 
(b)        The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Securityholders as provided in Section 9.03, in which case the Company or the Securityholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chair.  A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by majority vote of the meeting.
 
(c)        At any meeting of Securityholders of a series, each Securityholder of such series of such Securityholder's proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities of such series Outstanding held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding.  The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote other than by virtue of Securities of such series held by him or her or instruments in writing as aforesaid duly designating him or her as the Person to vote on behalf of other Securityholders.  At any meeting of the Securityholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.02 or 9.03 the presence of Persons holding or representing Securities in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to take action upon the business for the transaction of which such meeting was called shall be necessary to constitute a quorum, and any such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of those present, whether or not constituting a quorum, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
 
Section 9.06           .  The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Securityholders of a series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts of the Securities of such series held or represented by them.  The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting.  A record in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Securityholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more Persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as
Voting
 
provided in Section 9.02.  The record shall show the principal amounts of the Securities voting in favor of or against any resolution.  The record shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Company and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee.
 
Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
Section 9.07           .  Nothing contained in this Article IX shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit, by reason of any call of a meeting of Securityholders of any series or any rights expressly or impliedly conferred hereunder to make such call, any hindrance or delay in the exercise of any right or rights conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Securityholders of such series under any of the provisions of this Indenture or of the Securities of such series.
No Delay of Rights by Meeting
 
ARTICLE X
REPORTS BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS' LISTS
 
Section 10.01         .
Reports by Trustee
 
(a)        So long as any Securities are outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided therein.  If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within 60 days after each May 15 following the date of this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
 
(b)        The Trustee shall, at the time of the transmission to the Holders of Securities of any report pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.01, file a copy of such report with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, if any, and also with the SEC in respect of a Security listed and registered on a national securities exchange, if any.  The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when, as and if the Securities become listed on any stock exchange.
 
The Company will reimburse the Trustee for all expenses incurred in the preparation and transmission of any report pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.01 and of Section 10.02.
 
Section 10.02         .  The Company shall file with the Trustee and the SEC, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that, unless available on EDGAR, any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is filed with the SEC; and provided further, that the filing of the reports specified in Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act by an entity that is the direct or indirect parent of the Company will satisfy the requirements of this Section 10.02 so long as such entity is an obligor or guarantor on the
Reports by the Company
 
Securities; and provided further that the reports of such entity will not be required to include condensed consolidating financial information for the Company in a footnote to the financial statements of such entity.
 
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
 
Section 10.03         .  The Company covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
Securityholders' Lists
 
(a)        semi-annually, within 15 days after each Record Date, but in any event not less frequently than semi-annually, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities to which such Record Date applies, as of such Record Date, and
 
(b)        at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that so long as the Trustee shall be the Registrar, such lists shall not be required to be furnished.
 
ARTICLE XI
CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE
 
Section 11.01         .  The Trustee accepts the trusts created by this Indenture upon the terms and conditions hereof, including the following, to all of which the parties hereto and the Holders from time to time of the Securities agree:
Rights of Trustees; Compensation and Indemnity
 
(a)        The Trustee shall be entitled to such compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (including in any agent capacity in which it acts).  The compensation of the Trustee shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  The Company shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon its request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee (including the reasonable expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
 
The Company also agrees to indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee hereunder for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim, or expense incurred without its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder and the performance of its duties (including in any agent capacity in which it acts), as well as the costs
 
and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except those determined to have been caused by its own negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.  The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim of which the Trustee has received written notice and for which it may seek indemnity. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may employ separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section 11.01(a), the Trustee shall have a lien upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust by the Trustee to pay principal of and interest on any Securities.  Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture to the contrary, the obligations of the Company to compensate and indemnify the Trustee under this Section 11.01(a) shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and any satisfaction and discharge under Article XII.  When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in clause (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 occurs, the expenses and compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws.
 
(b)        The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform any duty hereunder either directly or by its agents and attorneys and shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
 
(c)        The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for the correctness of the recitals herein or in the Securities (except its certificates of authentication thereon) contained, all of which are made solely by the Company; and the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any manner whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities (except its certificates of authentication thereon), and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein.  The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any Securities, or the proceeds of any Securities, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture.
 
(d)        The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and, to the extent permitted by Section 11.02, any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered by the Trustee hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such Opinion of Counsel.
 
(e)        The Trustee, to the extent permitted by Section 11.02, may rely upon the certificate of the Secretary or one of the Assistant Secretaries of the Company as to the adoption of any Board Resolution or resolution of the stockholders of the Company, and any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by,
 
and whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee may rely upon, an Officer's Certificate of the Company (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed).
 
(f)         Subject to Section 11.04, the Trustee or any agent of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 310(b) and 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have had if it were not the Trustee or such agent.
 
(g)        Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.  The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
 
(h)        Any action taken by the Trustee pursuant to any provision hereof at the request or with the consent of any Person who at the time is the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding in respect of such Security upon all future Holders thereof or of any Security or Securities which may be issued for or in lieu thereof in whole or in part, whether or not such Security shall have noted thereon the fact that such request or consent had been made or given.
 
(i)         Subject to the provisions of Section 11.02, the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
 
(j)         Subject to the provisions of Section 11.02, the Trustee shall not be under any obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders of the Securities, pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, unless one or more of the Holders of the Securities shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred by it therein or thereby.
 
(k)        Subject to the provisions of Section 11.02, the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within its discretion or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(l)         Subject to the provisions of Section 11.02, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless the Holders of not less than 25% of the Outstanding Securities notify the Trustee thereof.
 
(m)       Subject to the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 11.02, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of Indebtedness or other paper or document, but the
 
Trustee, may, but shall not be required to, make further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Company and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
 
(n)        In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
(o)        The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder.
 
Section 11.02         .
Duties of Trustee
 
(a)        If one or more of the Events of Default specified in Section 7.01 with respect to the Securities of any series shall have happened, then, during the continuance thereof, the Trustee shall, with respect to such Securities, exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and shall use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b)        None of the provisions of this Indenture shall be construed as relieving the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent action, negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that, anything in this Indenture contained to the contrary notwithstanding,
 
(i)        unless and until an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01 with respect to the Securities of any series shall have happened which at the time is continuing,
 
(A)      the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties with respect to the Securities of that series as are specifically set out in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee, whose duties and obligations shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture; and
 
(B)       the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, upon certificates and opinions furnished to it pursuant to the express provisions of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which, by the provisions of this Indenture, are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical
 
calculations or other facts, statements, opinions or conclusions stated therein);
 
(ii)           the Trustee shall not be liable to any Holder of Securities or to any other Person for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(iii)          the Trustee shall not be liable to any Holder of Securities or to any other Person with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith, in accordance with the direction of Securityholders given as provided in Section 7.06, relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to it or exercising any trust or power conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(c)        None of the provisions of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise to incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
(d)        Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 11.02.
 
Section 11.03     .  Within 90 days after the occurrence thereof, and if known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to the Holders of the Securities of a series notice of each Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series known to the Trustee, by transmitting such notice to Holders at their addresses as the same shall then appear on the Register of the Company, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice (the term "Default" being hereby defined to be the events specified in Section 7.01, which are, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, Events of Default as defined in said Section), provided, however, that in the case of any Default of the character specified in Section 7.01(d) with respect to Securities of such series, such notice shall not be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence of such Default.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of such series when and as the same shall become payable, or to make any sinking fund payment as to Securities of the same series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice, if and so long as a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Securities of such series.
Notice of Defaults
 
Section 11.04     .
Eligibility; Disqualification
 
(a)        The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a).  The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition, and shall have a Corporate Trust Office.
 
If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.04, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
(b)        The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b); provided, however, that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA Section 310(b)(i) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA Section 310(b)(i) are met.  If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture.  If Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act is amended any time after the date of this Indenture to change the circumstances under which a Trustee shall be deemed to have a conflicting interest with respect to the Securities of any series or to change any of the definitions in connection therewith, this Section 11.04 shall be automatically amended to incorporate such changes.
 
Section 11.05         .  The Trustee, or any successor to it hereafter appointed, may at any time resign and be discharged of the trusts hereby created with respect to any one or more or all series of Securities by giving to the Company notice in writing.  Such resignation shall take effect upon the appointment of a successor Trustee and the acceptance of such appointment by such successor Trustee.  Any Trustee hereunder may be removed with respect to any series of Securities at any time by the filing with such Trustee and the delivery to the Company of an instrument or instruments in writing signed by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, specifying such removal and the date when it shall become effective.
Registration and Notice; Removal
 
If at any time:
 
(1)           the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
 
(2)           the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 11.04 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
 
(3)           the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by written notice to the Trustee may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to TIA Section 315(e), any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent
 
jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
 
Upon its resignation or removal, any Trustee shall be entitled to the payment of reasonable compensation for the services rendered hereunder by such Trustee and to the payment of all reasonable expenses incurred hereunder and all moneys then due to it hereunder.  The Trustee's rights to indemnification provided in Section 11.01(a) shall survive its resignation or removal.
 
Section 11.06         .
Successor Trustee by Appointment
 
(a)        In case at any time the Trustee shall resign, or shall be removed (unless the Trustee shall be removed as provided in Section 11.04(b), in which event the vacancy shall be filled as provided in said subdivision), or shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or if any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation with respect to the Securities of one or more series, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series) may be appointed by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that or those series then Outstanding, by an instrument or instruments in writing signed in duplicate by such Holders and filed, one original thereof with the Company and the other with the successor Trustee; but, until a successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of Securities of that or those series as herein authorized, the Company, or, in case all or substantially all the assets of the Company shall be in the possession of one or more custodians or receivers lawfully appointed, or of trustees in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings (including a trustee or trustees appointed under the provisions of the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted), or of assignees for the benefit of creditors, such receivers, custodians, trustees or assignees, as the case may be, by an instrument in writing, shall appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.  Subject to the provisions of Sections 11.04 and 11.05, upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series shall cease to be Trustee hereunder.  After any such appointment other than by the Holders of Securities of that or those series, the Person making such appointment shall forthwith cause notice thereof to be mailed to the Holders of Securities of such series at their addresses as the same shall then appear on the Register of the Company but any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series so appointed shall, immediately and without further act, be superseded by a successor Trustee appointed by the Holders of Securities of such series in the manner above prescribed, if such appointment be made prior to the expiration of one year from the date of the mailing of such notice by the Company, or by such receivers, trustees or assignees.
 
(b)        If any Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall resign or be removed and a successor Trustee shall not have been appointed by the Company or by the Holders of the Securities of such series or, if any successor Trustee so appointed shall not have accepted its appointment within 30 days after such appointment shall have been made, the resigning Trustee at the expense of the Company may apply to any court of competent
 
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.  If in any other case a successor Trustee shall not be appointed pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.06 within three months after such appointment might have been made hereunder, the Holder of any Security of the applicable series or any retiring Trustee at the expense of the Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Trustee.  Such court may thereupon, in any such case, after such notice, if any, as such court may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.
 
(c)        Any successor Trustee appointed hereunder with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor Trustee and to the Company, or to the receivers, trustees, assignees or court appointing it, as the case may be, an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations with respect to such series of such predecessor Trustee with like effect as if originally named as Trustee hereunder, and such predecessor Trustee, upon payment of its charges and disbursements then unpaid, shall thereupon become obligated to pay over, and such successor Trustee shall be entitled to receive, all moneys and properties held by such predecessor Trustee as Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 11.01(a).  Nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or of the successor Trustee or of the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, such predecessor Trustee, upon payment of its said charges and disbursements, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee upon the trusts herein expressed all the rights, powers and trusts of such predecessor Trustee and shall assign, transfer and deliver to the successor Trustee all moneys and properties held by such predecessor Trustee, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 11.01(a); and, upon request of any such successor Trustee and the Company shall make, execute, acknowledge and deliver any and all instruments in writing for more fully and effectually vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations.
 
Section 11.07         .  Any Person into which the Trustee or any successor to it in the trusts created by this Indenture shall be merged or converted, or any Person with which it or any successor to it shall be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee or any such successor to it shall be a party, or any Person to which the Trustee or any successor to it shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor Trustee under this Indenture without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; provided that such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article.  In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture with respect to one or more series of Securities, any of such Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered by the Trustee then in office, any successor to such Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; provided, however, that the right to adopt
Successor Trustee by Merger
 
the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
 
Section 11.08         .  Subject to Section 11.02, and subject to the provisions of Section 16.01 with respect to the certificates required thereby, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officer's Certificate with respect thereto delivered to the Trustee, and such Officer's Certificate, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
Right to Rely on Officer's Certificate
 
Section 11.09         .  The Trustee may appoint an agent (the "Authenticating Agent") reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate the Securities, and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve.  Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, any such Authenticating Agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by the Authenticating Agent. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
 
Each Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Article XI, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Article XI, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Article XI.
 
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Article XI, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.09, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section 11.09.
 
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section 11.09, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 11.01.
 
Section 11.10         .  Holders of Securities may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities.  The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to such communications.
Communications by Securityholders with Other Securityholders
 
 
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE; DEFEASANCE
 
Section 12.01         .  If, pursuant to Section 3.01, provision is made for the defeasance of Securities of a series and if the Securities of such series are denominated and payable only in U.S. Dollars (except as provided pursuant to Section 3.01), then the provisions of this Article shall be applicable except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01 for Securities of such series.  Defeasance provisions, if any, for Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency may be specified pursuant to Section 3.01.
Applicability of Article
 
Section 12.02         .  This Indenture, with respect to the Securities of any series (if all series issued under this Indenture are not to be affected), shall, upon Company Order, cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities herein expressly provided for and rights to receive payments of principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when,
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
 
(a)   either:
 
(i)       all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.07 and (B) Securities for
whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 6.03) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(ii)   all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation,
 
(A)      have become due and payable, or
 
(B)       will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
 
(C)       are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and the Company,
 
and in the case of (A), (B) or (C) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount in the Currency in which such Securities are denominated (except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 3.01) sufficient to pay and discharge the entire Indebtedness on such Securities for principal and premium, if any, and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities that have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; provided, however, in the event a petition for relief under federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, is filed with respect to the Company within 91 days after the deposit and the Trustee is required to return the moneys then on deposit with the Trustee to the Company, the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such Securities shall not be deemed terminated or discharged;
 
(b)        the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
 
(c)        the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such series have been complied with.  Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 11.01 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (a)(i) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 12.07 and the last paragraph of Section 6.03(e) shall survive.
 
Section 12.03         .  At the Company's option, either (a) the Company shall be deemed to have been Discharged (as defined below) from its obligations with respect to Securities of any series on the first day after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied or (b) the Company shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Section 6.04 with respect to Securities of any series (and, if so specified pursuant to Section 3.01, any other
Defeasance upon Deposit of Moneys or U.S. Government Obligations
restrictive covenant added for the benefit of such series pursuant to Section 3.01) at any time after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
 
(a)        The Company shall have deposited or caused to be deposited irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series (i) money in an amount, or (ii) U.S. Government Obligations (as defined below) that through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii), sufficient to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including any mandatory sinking fund payments) of and premium, if any, and interest on, the Outstanding Securities of such series on the dates such installments of interest or principal and premium are due; provided, however, in the event a petition for relief under federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, is filed with respect to the Company within 91 days after the deposit and the Trustee is required to return the moneys then on deposit with the Trustee to the Company, the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such Securities shall not be Discharged;
 
(b)        No Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default resulting from the borrowing of funds and the grant of any related liens to be applied to such deposit); and
 
(c)        The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such action had not been exercised and, in the case of the Securities of such series being Discharged accompanied by a ruling to that effect received from or published by the Internal Revenue Service.
 
"Discharged" means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, the Securities of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture relating to the Securities of such series (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except (A) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, from the trust fund described in clause (a) above, payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to Securities of such series under Sections 3.04, 3.06, 3.07, 6.02, 12.06 and 12.07 and (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder.
 
"U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States the timely of payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States, that, in either case under clauses (i) or (ii) are not callable or redeemable at the action of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or
a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depositary receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
 
Section 12.04         .  The Trustee and any Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Company (or to its designee) upon Company Order any excess moneys or U.S. Government Obligations held by them at any time, including any such moneys or obligations held by the Trustee under any escrow trust agreement entered into pursuant to Section 12.06.  The provisions of the last paragraph of Section 6.03 shall apply to any money held by the Trustee or any Paying Agent under this Article that remains unclaimed for two years after the Maturity of any series of Securities for which money or U.S. Government Obligations have been deposited pursuant to Section 12.03.
Repayment to Company
 
Section 12.05         .  The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal or interest received on such U.S. Government Obligations.
Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations
 
Section 12.06         .  Any deposits with the Trustee referred to in Section 12.03 above shall be irrevocable (except to the extent provided in Sections 12.04 and 12.07) and shall be made under the terms of an escrow trust agreement.  If any Outstanding Securities of a series are to be redeemed prior to their Stated Maturity, whether pursuant to any optional redemption provisions or in accordance with any mandatory or optional sinking fund requirement, the applicable escrow trust agreement shall provide therefor and the Company shall make such arrangements as are satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company.  The agreement shall provide that, upon satisfaction of any mandatory sinking fund payment requirements, whether by deposit of moneys, application of proceeds of deposited U.S. Government Obligations or, if permitted, by delivery of Securities, the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Company as excess moneys pursuant to Section 12.04 all funds or obligations then held under the agreement and allocable to the sinking fund payment requirements so satisfied.
Deposits to Be Held in Escrow
 
If Securities of a series with respect to which such deposits are made may be subject to later redemption at the option of the Company or pursuant to optional sinking fund payments, the applicable escrow trust agreement may, at the option of the Company, provide therefor.  In the case of an optional redemption in whole or in part, such agreement shall require the Company to deposit with the Trustee on or before the date notice of redemption is given funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Securities to be redeemed together with all unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.  Upon such deposit of funds, the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Company as excess funds pursuant to Section 12.04 all funds or obligations then held under such agreement and allocable to the Securities to be redeemed.  In the case of exercise of optional sinking fund payment rights by the Company, such agreement shall, at the option of the Company, provide that upon deposit by the Company with the Trustee of funds pursuant to such exercise the Trustee shall pay or deliver over to the Company as excess funds pursuant to Section
12.04 all funds or obligations then held under such agreement for such series and allocable to the Securities to be redeemed.
 
Section 12.07         .
Application of Trust Money
 
(a)        Neither the Trustee nor any other paying agent shall be required to pay interest on any moneys deposited pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, except such as it shall agree with the Company in writing to pay thereon.  Any moneys so deposited for the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after the date of the maturity of the Securities of such series or the date fixed for the redemption of all the Securities of such series at the time outstanding, as the case may be, shall be repaid by the Trustee or such other paying agent to the Company upon its written request and thereafter, anything in this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, any rights of the Holders of Securities of such series in respect of which such moneys shall have been deposited shall be enforceable only against the Company, and all liability of the Trustee or such other paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereafter cease.
 
(b)        Subject to the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, any moneys which at any time shall be deposited by the Company or on its behalf with the Trustee or any other paying agent for the purpose of paying the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on any of the Securities shall be and are hereby assigned, transferred and set over to the Trustee or such other paying agent in trust for the respective Holders of the Securities for the purpose for which such moneys shall have been deposited; but such moneys need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 12.08         .  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, if the Securities of any series are payable in a Currency other than U.S. Dollars, the Currency or the nature of the government obligations to be deposited with the Trustee under the foregoing provisions of this Article shall be as set forth in the Officer's Certificate or established in the supplemental indenture under which the Securities of such series are issued.
Deposits of Non-U.S. Currencies
 
 
IMMUNITY OF CERTAIN PERSONS
 
Section 13.01         .  No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of, or the premium, if any, or interest on, any Security or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof or of the Indebtedness represented thereby, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitutional provision, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Indenture and the Securities are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to, or be incurred by, any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any successor
No Personal Liability
corporation, because of the incurring of the Indebtedness hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants, promises or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities, or to be implied herefrom or therefrom, and that all liability, if any, of that character against every such incorporator, stockholder, officer and director is, by the acceptance of the Securities and as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities expressly waived and released.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
 
Section 14.01         .  Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any one or more of or all the following purposes:
Without Consent of Securityholders
 
(a)        to add to the covenants and agreements of the Company, to be observed thereafter and during the period, if any, in such supplemental indenture or indentures expressed, and to add Events of Default, in each case for the protection or benefit of the Holders of all or any series of the Securities (and if such covenants, agreements and Events of Default are to be for the benefit of fewer than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants, agreements and Events of Default are expressly being included for the benefit of such series as shall be identified therein), or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
 
(b)        to delete or modify any Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities, the form and terms of which are being established pursuant to such supplemental indenture as permitted in Section 3.01 (and, if any such Event of Default is applicable to fewer than all such series of the Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable), and to specify the rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders of such Securities in connection therewith;
 
(c)        to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture that is entitled to the benefit of such provision and as to which such supplemental indenture would apply;
 
(d)        to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by such successor of the covenants and obligations of the Company contained in the Securities of one or more series and in this Indenture or any supplemental indenture;
 
(e)        to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to one or more series of Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 11.06(c);
 
(f)         to secure any series of Securities;
(g)        to evidence any changes to this Indenture pursuant to Sections 11.05, 11.06 or 11.07 hereof as permitted by the terms thereof;
 
(h)        to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any indenture supplemental hereto which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture;
 
(i)         to add to or change or eliminate any provision of this Indenture as shall be necessary or desirable in accordance with any amendments to the Trust Indenture Act;
 
(j)         to add guarantors or co-obligors with respect to any series of Securities;
 
(k)        to make any change in any series of Securities that does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders of such Securities;
 
(l)         to provide for uncertificated securities in addition to certificated securities;
 
(m)       to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities;
 
(n)        to prohibit the authentication and delivery of additional series of Securities; or
 
(o)        to establish the form and terms of Securities of any series as permitted in Section 3.01, or to authorize the issuance of additional Securities of a series previously authorized or to add to the conditions, limitations or restrictions on the authorized amount, terms or purposes of issue, authentication or delivery of the Securities of any series, as herein set forth, or other conditions, limitations or restrictions thereafter to be observed.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 14.03, the Trustee is authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make the further agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property or assets thereunder.
 
Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 14.01 may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 14.02.
 
Section 14.02         .
With Consent of Securityholders; Limitations
 
(a)        With the consent of the Holders (evidenced as provided in Article VIII) of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture voting separately, the Company and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any provisions of this
Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of such series to be affected; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each such series affected thereby,
 
(i)    change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or extend the Stated Maturity of, or change the Currency in which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 7.02, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or materially adversely affect the economic terms of any right to convert or exchange any Security as may be provided pursuant to Section 3.01; or
 
(ii)   reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain Defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture; or
 
(iii)  modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 7.06 or Section 6.06, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 6.06, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 11.06 and 14.01(f); or
 
(iv)  modify, without the written consent of the Trustee, the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.
 
(b)        A supplemental indenture that changes or eliminates any provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
(c)        It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders under this Section 14.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
 
(d)        The Company may set a record date for purposes of determining the identity of the Holders of each series of Securities entitled to give a written consent or waive
compliance by the Company as authorized or permitted by this Section.  Such record date shall not be more than 30 days prior to the first solicitation of such consent or waiver or the date of the most recent list of Holders furnished to the Trustee prior to such solicitation pursuant to Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(e)        Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section 14.02, the Company shall mail a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the Holders of Securities at their addresses as the same shall then appear in the Register of the Company.  Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
 
Section 14.03         (a).  Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by the Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel required by Section 16.01 stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee of consent of the Holders if the supplemental indenture is to be executed pursuant to Section 14.02, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of said supplemental indenture unless said supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into said supplemental indenture.  The Trustee shall be fully protected in relying upon such Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel.
Trustee Protected
 
Section 14.04         .  Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article XIV, this Indenture shall be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of all of the Securities or of the Securities of any series affected, as the case may be, shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
Effect of Execution of Supplemental Indenture
 
Section 14.05         .  Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article may bear a notation in the form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture.  If the Company or the Trustee shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for the Securities then Outstanding in equal aggregate principal amounts, and such exchange shall be made without cost to the Holders of the Securities.
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
 
Section 14.06         .  Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with TIA
 
SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES
 
Section 15.01         . In the event a series of Securities is designated as subordinated pursuant to Section 3.01, and except as otherwise provided in a Company Order or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, the Company, for itself, its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees, and each Holder of Securities of such series by his, her or its acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, that the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on each and all of the Securities of such series is hereby expressly subordinated, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness.  In the event a series of Securities is not designated as subordinated pursuant to Section 3.01(s), this Article XV shall have no effect upon the Securities.
Agreement to Subordinate
 
Section 15.02         . Subject to Section 15.01, upon any distribution of assets of the Company upon any dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether in bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or receivership proceedings or upon an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the Company or otherwise (subject to the power of a court of competent jurisdiction to make other equitable provision reflecting the rights conferred in this Indenture upon the Senior Indebtedness and the holders thereof with respect to the Securities and the holders thereof by a lawful plan of reorganization under applicable bankruptcy law):
Distribution on Dissolution, Liquidation and Reorganization; Subrogation of Securities
 
(a)        the holders of all Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive payment in full of the principal thereof (and premium, if any) and interest due thereon before the Holders of the Securities are entitled to receive any payment upon the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on Indebtedness evidenced by the Securities; and
 
(b)        any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article XV shall be paid by the liquidation trustee or agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, whether a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver or liquidating trustee or otherwise, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instruments evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably according to the aggregate amounts remaining unpaid on account of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Senior Indebtedness held or represented by each, to the extent necessary to make payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness; and
 
(c)        in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities prohibited by the foregoing, shall be received by the Trustee or the Holders of the Securities before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full, such payment or distribution shall be
paid over, upon written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, to the holder of such Senior Indebtedness or his, her or its representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instrument evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably as aforesaid, as calculated by the Company, for application to payment of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid until all such Senior Indebtedness shall have been paid in full, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.
 
(d)        Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the Holders of the Securities shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of Senior Indebtedness (to the extent that distributions otherwise payable to such holder have been applied to the payment of Senior Indebtedness) to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to Senior Indebtedness until the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities shall be paid in full and no such payments or distributions to the Holders of the Securities of cash, property or securities otherwise distributable to the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Securities be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on account of the Securities. It is understood that the provisions of this Article XV are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities, on the one hand, and the holders of the Senior Indebtedness, on the other hand. Nothing contained in this Article XV or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Securities is intended to or shall impair, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Securities, the obligation of the Company, which is unconditional and absolute, to pay to the Holders of the Securities the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or to affect the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, nor shall anything herein or in the Securities prevent the Trustee or the Holder of any Security from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article XV of the holders of Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article XV, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 15.05, shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon a certificate of the liquidating trustee or agent or other person making any distribution to the Trustee for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereof and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article XV.
 
Section 15.03         . Subject to Section 15.01, no payment by the Company on account of principal (or premium, if any), sinking funds or interest, if any, on the Securities shall be made at anytime if: (i) a default on Senior Indebtedness exists that permits the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to accelerate its maturity and (ii) the default is the subject of judicial proceedings or the Company has received notice of such default. The Company may resume payments on the Securities when full payment of amounts then due for principal (premium, if any), sinking funds and interest on Senior Indebtedness has been made or duly provided for in money or money's worth.
No Payment on Securities in Event of Default on Senior Indebtedness
In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment shall be received by the Trustee when such payment is prohibited by the preceding paragraph of this Section 15.03, such payment shall be held in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered to, the holders of such Senior Indebtedness or their respective representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, as calculated by the Company, but only to the extent that the holders of such Senior Indebtedness (or their representative or representatives or a trustee) notify the Trustee in writing within 90 days of such payment of the amounts then due and owing on such Senior Indebtedness and only the amounts specified in such notice to the Trustee shall be paid to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.
 
Section 15.04         . Subject to Section 15.01, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall (a) affect the obligation of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, at any time except as provided in Sections 15.02 and 15.03, payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities or (b) prevent the application by the Trustee of any moneys or assets deposited with it hereunder to the payment of or on account of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities, unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received at its Corporate Trust Office written notice of any fact prohibiting the making of such payment from the Company or from the holder of any Senior Indebtedness or from the trustee for any such holder, together with proof satisfactory to the Trustee of such holding of Senior Indebtedness or of the authority of such trustee more than two Business Days prior to the date fixed for such payment.
Payments on Securities Permitted
 
Section 15.05         . Subject to Section 15.01, each Holder of Securities by his acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on his, her or its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article XV and appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.
Authorization of Securityholders to Trustee to Effect Subordination
 
Section 15.06         . The Company shall give prompt written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies or assets to or by the Trustee in respect of the Securities of any series pursuant to the provisions of this Article XV.  Subject to Section 15.01, notwithstanding the provisions of this Article XV or any other provisions of this Indenture, neither the Trustee nor any Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall be charged with knowledge of the existence of any Senior Indebtedness or of any fact which would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys or assets to or by the Trustee or such Paying Agent, unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall have received (in the case of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee) written notice thereof from the Company or from the holder of any Senior Indebtedness or from the trustee for any such holder, together with proof satisfactory to the Trustee of such holding of Senior Indebtedness or of the authority of such trustee and, prior to the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee shall be entitled in all respects conclusively to presume that no such facts exist; provided, however, that if at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys or assets may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of either the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on
Notices to Trustee
any Security) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall not have received with respect to such moneys or assets the notice provided for in this Section 15.06, then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such moneys or assets and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary which may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date. The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee on behalf of such holder) to establish that such a notice has been given by a holder of Senior Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder. In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article XV, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article XV and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.
 
Section 15.07         . Subject to Section 15.01, the Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article XV in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any time held by it to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness and nothing in this Indenture shall be construed to deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder. Nothing in this Article XV shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Sections 7.05 or 11.01.
Trustee as Holder of Senior Indebtedness
 
Section 15.08         . Subject to Section 15.01, any renewal or extension of the time of payment of any Senior Indebtedness or the exercise by the holders of Senior Indebtedness of any of their rights under any instrument creating or evidencing Senior Indebtedness, including, without limitation, the waiver of default thereunder, may be made or done all without notice to or assent from the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee. No compromise, alteration, amendment, modification, extension, renewal or other change of, or waiver, consent or other action in respect of, any liability or obligation under or in respect of, or of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of any indenture or other instrument under which any Senior Indebtedness is outstanding or of such Senior Indebtedness, whether or not such release is in accordance with the provisions of any applicable document, shall in any way alter or affect any of the provisions of this Article XV or of the Securities relating to the subordination thereof.
Modifications of Terms of Senior Indebtedness
 
Section 15.09         . Subject to Section 15.01, upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article XV, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any order or decree entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up or similar case or proceeding is pending, or a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, liquidating trustee, custodian, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors, agent or other person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution, the
Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of Liquidating Agent
holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article XV.
 
Section 15.10         . Subject to Section 15.01, amounts and U.S. Government Obligations deposited in trust with the Trustee pursuant to and in accordance with Article XII and not, at the time of such deposit, prohibited to be deposited under Sections 15.02 or 15.03 shall not be subject to this Article XV.
Satisfaction and Discharge; Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
 
Section 15.11         .  With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, the Trustee undertakes to perform or observe only such of its covenants and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Article XV, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee.  The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Indebtedness.  The Trustee shall not be liable to any such holder if it shall pay over or distribute to or on behalf of Holders of Securities or the Company, or any other Person, moneys or assets to which any holder of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article XV or otherwise.
Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders of Senior Indebtedness
 
 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
 
Section 16.01         .
Certificates and Opinions as to Conditions Precedent
 
(a)        Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such document is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
(b)        Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than the certificates provided pursuant to Section 6.05 of this Indenture) shall include (i) a statement that the Person giving such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (iii) a statement that, in the view or opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed view or opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (iv) a statement as to whether or not, in the view or opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
(c)        Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate, statement or opinion is based are erroneous.  Any certificate, statement or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate, statement or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate, statement or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
(d)        Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Company or of counsel to the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an accountant or firm of accountants, unless such officer or counsel, as the case may be, knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his or her certificate, statement or opinion may be based are erroneous.  Any certificate or opinion of any firm of independent registered public accountants filed with the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent.
 
(e)        In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
(f)         Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
Section 16.02         .  If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by, or another provision included in this Indenture which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
 
Section 16.03         .  Any notice or demand authorized by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Company or the Trustee shall be sufficiently made, given, furnished or filed for all purposes if it shall be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to:
Notices to the Company and Trustee
 
(a)        the Company, at 225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15212, Attention: General Counsel, Facsimile No.: 412-553-5970, or by email to treasury@eqt.com or at such other address or facsimile number as may have been furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
(b)        the Trustee, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
 
Any such notice, demand or other document shall be in the English language.
 
Section 16.04         .  Any notice required or permitted to be given to Securityholders shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided),
Notices to Securityholders; Waiver
 
(a)        if to Holders, if given in writing by first class mail, postage prepaid, to such Holders at their addresses as the same shall appear on the Register of the Company.
 
(b)        In the event of suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give notice by mail, then such notification as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice for every purpose hereunder.
 
(c)        Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice.  Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance on such waiver.  In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail; neither the failure to mail such notice nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders, and any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given.  In any case where notice to Holders is given by publication, any defect in any notice so published as to any particular Holder shall not affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders, and any notice that is published in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given.
 
Section 16.05        .  Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 3.01, in any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity of any Security of any series shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment for the Securities of that series, then payment of principal and premium, if any, or interest need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity, as the case may be, to such Business Day if such payment is made or duly provided for on such Business Day.
Legal Holiday
 
Section 16.06         .  The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effects of Headings and Table of Contents
 
Section 16.07         .  All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the parties hereto shall bind their respective successors and assigns and inure to the benefit of their permitted successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
Section 16.08         .  In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
 
Section 16.09         .  Nothing in this Indenture expressed and nothing that may be implied from any of the provisions hereof is intended, or shall be construed, to confer upon, or to give to, any Person or corporation other than the parties hereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities any benefit or any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Indenture or any covenant, condition, stipulation, promise or agreement hereof, and all covenants, conditions, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities.
Benefits of Indenture
 
Section 16.10         .  This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts Originals
 
Section 16.11         .  This Indenture and the Securities shall be deemed to be contracts made under the law of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of said State.
Governing Law; Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF A SECURITY BY ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
 
Section 16.12         .  In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC.
as Issuer
and
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
as Trustee
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Dated as of March 18, 2008
to
INDENTURE
Dated as of March 18, 2008
 
6.50% Senior Notes due 2018
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
, dated as of March 18, 2008 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), between Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, having its principal office at 225 North Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212 (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee").
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
, the Company executed and delivered the indenture, dated as of March 18, 2008, to the Trustee (the "Base Indenture and as hereby supplemented, the "Indenture"), to provide for the issuance of the Company's debt securities (the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series;
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Corporation desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its notes under the Base Indenture to be known as its "6.50% Senior Notes due 2018" (the "Senior Notes"), the form and substance and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS
 
, the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to resolutions duly adopted on January 23, 2008, have duly authorized the issuance of the Senior Notes, and has authorized the proper officers of the Company to execute any and all appropriate documents necessary or appropriate to effect each such issuance;
WHEREAS
 
, this Supplemental Indenture is being entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section 14.01 of the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS
 
, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
 
, all things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, and to make the Senior Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the premises and the purchase and acceptance of the Senior Notes by the Holders thereof, and for the purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Base Indenture, the forms and terms of the Senior Notes, the Company covenants and agrees, with the Trustee, as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
DEFINITIONS
 
Section 1.1.            .  Unless the context otherwise requires:
Definition of Terms
 
(a)           each term defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(b)           the singular includes the plural and vice versa; and
 
(c)           headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation.
 
(d)           a reference to a Section or Article is to a Section or Article of this Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise indicated.
 
(e)           The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.1(d):
 
(i)            "Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of any particular time, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease involved in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligation of the lessee thereunder for net rental payments (excluding, however, any amounts required to be paid by such lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of maintenance and repairs, services, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges and any amounts required to be paid by such lessee thereunder contingent upon monetary inflation or the amount of sales, maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges) during the remaining term of such lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended).
 
(ii)           "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom (x) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles and (y) all current liabilities except for current maturities of long-term debt, current maturities of capitalized lease obligations, indebtedness for borrowed money having a maturity of less than 12 months from the date of the most recent audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company, but which by its terms is renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the
borrower and deferred income taxes which are classified as current liabilities, all as reflected in the audited consolidated balance sheet contained in the Company's most recent annual report to its shareholders under Rule 14a-3 of the Exchange Act, prior to the time as of which "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" is being determined.
 
(iii)          "Debt" means indebtedness for borrowed money.
 
(iv)          "DTC" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.5.
 
(v)           "Event of Default" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.12.
 
(vi)          "Incurrence Time" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.9(b).
 
(vii)         "Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, security interest or lien.
 
(viii)        "Principal Property" means any manufacturing plant or production, transportation or marketing facility or other similar facility located within the United States (other than its territories and possessions) and owned by, or leased to, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, the book value of the real property, plant and equipment of which (as shown, without deduction of any depreciation reserves, on the books of the owner or owners) is not less than 1.5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as of the date on which such facility is acquired or a leasehold interest therein is acquired.
 
(ix)           "Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary substantially all the property of which is located, or substantially all the business of which is carried on, within the United States (other than its territories and possessions) which shall at the time, directly or indirectly, through one or more Subsidiaries or in combination with one or more other Subsidiaries or the Company, own or be a lessee of a Principal Property.
 
(x)            "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.10.
 
(xi)           "Subsidiary" means, with respect to the Company, a corporation of which more than 50% of the total voting power of the capital stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of its directors is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries.
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SENIOR NOTES
 
Section 2.1.            .  There is hereby authorized and established a new series of Securities under the Base Indenture, designated as the "6.50% Senior Notes due 2018", which is not limited in aggregate principal amount.  The initial aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes to be issued under this Supplemental Indenture shall be limited to $500,000,000.  Any additional amounts of such series to be issued shall be set forth in a Company Order.
Designation and Principal Amount
 
Section 2.2.            .  The stated maturity of principal for the Senior Notes will be April 1, 2018.
Maturity
 
Section 2.3.            .  The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of the Senior Notes, issue additional notes of such series.  Any such additional notes will have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date and other terms as the Senior Notes.  Any such additional notes, together with the Senior Notes herein provided for, will constitute a single series of Securities under the Indenture.
Further Issues
 
Section 2.4.            .  Principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes shall be payable in U.S. dollars.
Form of Payment
 
Section 2.5.            .  Upon the original issuance, the Senior Notes will be represented by one or more Global Securities.  The Corporation will issue the Senior Notes in denominations of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof and will deposit the Global Securities with the Trustee as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), in New York, New York, and register the Global Securities in the name of DTC or its nominee.
Global Securities
 
Section 2.6.            .  The Senior Notes will bear interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) from March 18, 2008 at the rate of 6.50% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears; interest payable on each interest payment date will include interest accrued from March 18, 2008, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for; the interest payment dates on which such interest shall be payable are April 1 and October 1, commencing on October 1, 2008; and the record date for the interest payable on any interest payment date is the close of business on March 15 or September 15, as the case may be, next preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date.
Interest
 
Section 2.7.            .  The Senior Notes shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
 
Section 2.8.            .  The Senior Notes are subject to redemption at the option of the Company as set forth in the form of Senior Note attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Redemption
Section 2.9.            .
Limitation on Liens
 
(a)           Except as otherwise provided in clauses (i) through (ix) below or in subsection (b) of this section, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any Debt secured by a Lien upon any Principal Property of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary or upon any shares of stock or Debt issued by any Restricted Subsidiary, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, without in any such case effectively providing that the Senior Notes together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guaranty by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created which is not subordinated to the Senior Notes) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of the Company, prior to) such secured Debt, so long as such Debt shall be so secured; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.9 shall prevent, restrict or apply to (and there shall be excluded from secured Debt in any computation under this Section 2.9) Debt secured by:
 
(i)            Liens on property of, or shares of stock or Debt issued by, any Subsidiary existing at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Restricted Subsidiary; provided, that such Lien shall not have been incurred in connection with the transfer by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of a Principal Property to such Subsidiary unless the Company, within 180 days of the effective date of such transfer, applies or causes a Restricted Subsidiary to apply an amount equal to the fair value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of such Principal Property at the time of such transfer, to the retirement of Senior Notes or other Debt of the Company (other than Debt subordinated to the Senior Notes), or Debt of any Restricted Subsidiary (other than Debt owed to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary), having a stated maturity (x) more than 12 months from the date of such application or (y) which is extendable at the option of the obligor thereon to a date more than 12 months from the date of such application;
 
(ii)           Liens on any property, shares of stock or Debt existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof or securing any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after, the acquisition of such property, shares of stock or Debt or the completion of any such construction, whichever is later, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof;
 
(iii)          Liens on any property to secure all or any part of the cost of development, construction, alteration, repair or improvement of all or any portion of such property, or to secure Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after, the completion of such development, construction, alteration, repair or improvement, whichever is later, for the purpose of financing all or any part of such cost;
 
(iv)          Liens which secure Debt owed by a Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary or by the Company to a Restricted Subsidiary so long as the Debt is held by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
(v)           Liens securing indebtedness of a corporation or other Person which becomes a successor of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture and Section 2.11 hereof other than (x) in connection with the Holding Company Reorganization and (y) Debt incurred by such corporation or other Person in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale of assets in accordance with Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture and Section 2.11 hereof;
 
(vi)          Liens on property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States or any state thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States or any state thereof, or in favor of any other country or any political subdivision thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred or guaranteed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction, alteration, repair or improvement of the property subject to such Liens (including but not limited to Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financing), or in favor of any trustee or mortgagee for the benefit of holders of indebtedness of any such entity incurred for any such purpose;
 
(vii)         Liens securing Debt which is payable, both with respect to principal and interest, solely out of the proceeds of oil, gas, coal or other minerals to be produced from the property subject thereto and to be sold or delivered by the Company or a Subsidiary, including any interest of the character commonly referred to as a "production payment";
 
(viii)        Liens created or assumed by a Subsidiary on oil, gas, coal or other mineral property, owned or leased by a Subsidiary, to secure Debt of such Subsidiary for the purpose of developing such property, including any interest of the character commonly referred to as a "production payment"; provided, however, that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall assume or guarantee such Debt or otherwise be liable in respect thereof; and
 
(ix)           any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) to (viii), inclusive, or of any Debt secured thereby; provided, that such extension, renewal or replacement Lien shall be limited to all or any part of the same property that secured the Lien extended, renewed or replaced (plus any improvements and construction on such property) and shall secure no larger amount of Debt than that which had been so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and, in the case of clause (iv), that the Debt being secured thereby is being secured for the same type of Person as the Debt being replaced.
(b)           Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.9, the Company and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by a Lien which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions if at the time it does so (the "Incurrence Time") the aggregate amount of such Debt plus all other Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by Liens which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions after giving effect to the retirement of any Debt which is currently being retired (not including Debt permitted to be secured under clauses (i) through (ix) above), plus the aggregate Attributable Debt (determined as of the Incurrence Time) of Sale and Leaseback Transactions (other than Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by subsections (a) and (b) of Section 2.10) entered into after the date of this Supplemental Indenture and in existence at the Incurrence Time (less the aggregate amount of proceeds of such Sale and Leaseback Transactions which shall have been applied in accordance with subsection (c) of Section 2.10), does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
Section 2.10.          .  The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement after March 18, 2008 with any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor (other than the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary) providing for the leasing as lessee by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property (except a lease for a term not to exceed three years by the end of which term it is intended that the use of such Principal Property by the lessee will be discontinued and a lease which secures or relates to industrial revenue or pollution control bonds or similar financing), which was or is owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary and which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary to such Person, more than 180 days after the completion of construction and commencement of full operation of such property by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such Principal Property (herein called a "Sale and Leaseback Transaction") unless:
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
 
(a)           the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would, at the time of entering into such arrangement, be entitled pursuant to clauses (i) through (ix) of subsection (a) of Section 2.9, without equally and ratably securing the Senior Notes, to issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by a Lien on such Principal Property in the amount of the Attributable Debt arising from such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; or
 
(b)           the Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and all other Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of this Supplemental Indenture (other than such Sale and Leaseback Transactions as are permitted by subsection (a) or (c) of this Section 2.10), plus the aggregate principal amount of Debt secured by Liens on Principal Properties then outstanding (not including any such Debt secured by Liens described in clauses (i) through (ix) of subsection (a) of Section 2.9) which do not equally and ratably secure the Senior Notes, would not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets; or
(c)           the Company, within 180 days after any such sale or transfer, applies or causes a Restricted Subsidiary to apply an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the fair value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the Principal Property so sold and leased back at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction to the retirement of Senior Notes or other Debt of the Company (other than Debt subordinated to the Senior Notes), or Debt of any Restricted Subsidiary (other than Debt owed to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary), having a stated maturity (i) more than 12 months from the date of such application or (ii) which is extendable at the option of the obligor thereon to a date more than 12 months from the date of such application; provided, that the amount to be so applied shall be reduced by (x) the principal amount of Senior Notes delivered to the Trustee for retirement and cancellation within 180 days after such sale or transfer, and (y) the principal amount of any such Debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary other than Senior Notes voluntarily retired by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary within 180 days after such sale or transfer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no retirement referred to in this subdivision (c) may be effected by payment at Maturity.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is the lessee in any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, Attributable Debt shall not include any Debt resulting from the guarantee by the Company or any other Restricted Subsidiary of the lessee's obligation thereunder.
 
Section 2.11.          .  In addition to the covenants provided in Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture, the Company will not consolidate or merge with or into any other entity, or sell other than for cash or lease its assets substantially as an entirety to another entity, or purchase the assets of another entity substantially as an entirety, if, as a result of any such consolidation, merger, sale, lease or purchase, properties or assets of the Company would become subject to a lien which would not be permitted by the Indenture, unless the Company or such successor Person, as the case may be, takes such steps as are necessary to effectively secure the Senior Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness secured thereby.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets
 
Section 2.12.          .  The term "Event of Default" with respect to the Senior Notes shall mean
Events of Default
 
(a)        the failure of the Company to pay any installment of interest on the Senior Notes when and as the same shall become payable, which failure shall have continued unremedied for a period of 30 days;
 
(b)        the failure of the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Senior Notes, when and as the same shall become payable, whether at maturity or by call for redemption;
 
(c)        the failure of the Company, subject to the provisions of Section 6.06 of the Base Indenture, to perform any covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture (other than a covenant or agreement which has been expressly included in the Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than the Senior Notes and other than a covenant or agreement a default in the performance of which is specifically addressed elsewhere in this
Section 2.12), which failure shall not have been remedied, or without provision deemed to be adequate for the remedying thereof having been made, for a period of 90 days after written notice shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee or shall have been given to the Company and the Trustee by Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then Outstanding, specifying such failure, requiring the Company to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
 
(d)        default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, which default shall constitute a failure to pay any portion of the principal of such indebtedness when due and payable after the expiration of any applicable grace period with respect thereto or shall have resulted in such indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, without such indebtedness having been discharged, or such acceleration having been rescinded or annulled, which continues for a period of 30 days after written notice shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee or shall have been given to the Company and the Trustee by Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then Outstanding, specifying such default, requiring the Company to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
 
(e)        the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or of substantially all the property of the Company or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
 
(f)         the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or the consent by the Company to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or the consent by the Company to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or of substantially all the property of the Company or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any action;
 
provided, however, that no event described in clause (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder until a Responsible Officer assigned to and working in the Trustee's corporate trust department has actual knowledge thereof or until a written notice of any such event is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office, and such notice refers to the facts underlying such event, the Senior Notes generally, the Company and the Indenture.
Section 2.13.          .  The Trustee will initially be the Security Registrar and Paying Agent for the Senior Notes.
Appointment of Agents
 
Section 2.14.          .  At the Company's option, either (a) the Company shall be deemed to have been Discharged from its obligations with respect to the Senior Notes on the first day after the applicable conditions set forth in Section 12.03 of the Base Indenture have been satisfied or (b) the Company shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture and Sections 2.9, 2.10 and 2.11 with respect to the Senior Notes at any time after the applicable conditions set forth in Section 12.03 have been satisfied.
Defeasance upon Deposit of Moneys or U.S. Government Obligations
 
FORM OF NOTES
 
Section 3.1.            .  The Senior Notes and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Form of Senior Notes
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE OF NOTES
 
Section 4.1.            .  The Senior Notes may, upon execution of this Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall, upon Company order, authenticate and deliver such Senior Notes as in such Company order provided.
Original Issue of Senior Notes
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
Section 5.1.            .  The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided; provided that the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture apply solely with respect to the Senior Notes.
Ratification of Indenture
 
Section 5.2.            .  The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof.  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
Section 5.3.            .  This Supplemental Indenture and each Senior Note shall be deemed to be contracts made under the law of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of said State.
Governing Law
 
Section 5.4.            .  In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Senior Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability
 
Section 5.5.            .  This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
[FORM OF FACE OF SECURITY]
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
CUSIP No. 294549AR1
EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC. 6.50% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2018
 
 
.  Equitable Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of 500 million dollars ($500,000,000), as revised by the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on March 18, 2008 and to pay interest thereon from March 18, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 2008 at the rate of 6.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
Interest
 
.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be March 15 or September 15, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice thereof having been given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.  Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office in U.S. Dollars.
Method of Payment
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
.  Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
Authentication
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
Dated: March 18, 2008
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
Dated:
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
 
as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the Indenture.
 
 
 
[FORM OF REVERSE OF SECURITY]
 
.  This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of March 18, 2008, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated March 18, 2008 (as so supplemented, herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000.
Indenture
 
.  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption at the Company's option, at any time and from time to time, in whole or in part, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 50 basis points plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
Optional Redemption
 
For purposes of determining the optional redemption price, the following definitions are applicable:
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Securities, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
 
The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date.
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("remaining life") of the Securities that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining terms of the Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date:
 
(a)           the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or
 
(b)           if the Independent Investment Banker is unable to obtain at least four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations obtained by the Independent Investment Banker.
 
"Independent Investment Banker" means Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. or Lehman Brothers Inc., as specified by the Company, or if these firms are unwilling or unable to select the applicable Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. or Lehman Brothers Inc., (and their respective successors), provided however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date for the Securities, an average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue for the Securities (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each registered Holder of the Securities to be redeemed. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions of the Securities called for redemption.  If fewer than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, the particular Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding Securities not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
 
Except as set forth above, the Securities will not be redeemable by the Company prior to maturity and will not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
 
.If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Defaults and Remedies
 
 
.  The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendment, Modification and Waiver
 
.  The Indenture does not limit unsecured debt of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  It does limit certain mortgages, liens and sale-leaseback transactions.  The limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions.  Once a year the Company must report to the Trustee on compliance with the limitations.
Restrictive Covenants
 
.The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Denominations, Transfer and Exchange
 
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the Registrar accompanied by a written request for transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
.  Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
.  The Indenture and this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of said State.
Miscellaneous
 
All terms used in this Security and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL SECURITY
 
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
 


