FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20080714085959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
Item 5.02               Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On July 9, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Equitable Resources, Inc. (the "Company") elected Philip G. Behrman and A. Bray Cary, Jr. as independent directors of the Company, with terms expiring at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Mr. Behrman will serve as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board and Mr. Cary will serve as a member of the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board.  The Board also increased the size of the Board from eleven (11) to twelve (12) members.
 
Mr. Behrman most recently served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Exploration of Marathon Oil Corporation, retiring from that position on July 1, 2008.  Mr. Cary currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of West Virginia Media Holdings, LLC.
 
furnished and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and is not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") or Exchange Act.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is the press release announcing the election.  The press release is
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1         Press release issued by Equitable Resources, Inc. dated July 9, 2008.  (Furnished and not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or Exchange Act.)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PITTSBURGH, July 9, 2008  Equitable Resources, Inc. (NYSE: EQT) today announced the election of two board members who bring a diversity and breadth of national experience in both gas and oil exploration and entrepreneurial business development.
 
Philip "Phil" Behrman retired July 1 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Exploration for Marathon Oil Corporation, where he held progressively responsible positions in the U.S. and internationally.  Marathon Oil is engaged in exploration, production and marketing of crude oil and natural gas.
 
Bray Cary is currently president and chief executive officer of West Virginia Media Holdings, LLC, but is nationally known as a sports marketing entrepreneur. Earlier in his career, Cary was Founder and President of Creative Sports Marketing, Inc., Sports Consultant for ESPN, Inc. and Vice President, TV and Technology for National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc. (NASCAR).
 
"Bray Cary and Phil Behrman offer the additional national and international perspective we need to help us see the Big Picture,'" said Equitable Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Murry Gerber.
 
Behrman began his 30-year career in the energy business after receiving his BS and PhD in Geology from the University of California.  Before joining Marathon Oil, Behrman was employed by British Petroleum, PLC in various exploration and production positions throughout the United States.  He was also Division Manager, Exploration, and Acting Vice President, Exploration, for Vastar Resources, Inc.
 
In 2001, after playing a role in priming the national growth of  NASCAR, Cary returned to his native West Virginia to establish and grow West Virginia Media Holdings, a print and broadcast organization that reaches more than 90 percent of the Mountain State's population with newsgathering and entertainment.  Cary holds BS and MPA degrees from West Virginia University, and is a strong advocate for the state's economic development.
 
Equitable Resources is an integrated energy company with emphasis on natural gas production, supply, transmission and distribution, and is the largest natural gas company in the Appalachian Basin.
 


