FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20080117161432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.02.              Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On January 15, 2008, Equitable Resources, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), and Dominion Resources, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Dominion"), entered into a Mutual Termination Agreement (the "Termination Agreement") terminating the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated March 1, 2006, between Equitable and Dominion, as supplemented by that certain Letter Agreement dated as of July 3, 2007 (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"). The Stock Purchase Agreement, which contemplated Equitable's acquisition of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. from Dominion, was terminated due to the continued delay in achieving the final regulatory approvals for the transaction.
 
A copy of the Termination Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the Termination Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Termination Agreement. The press release announcing the termination of the Stock Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Mutual Termination Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of January 15, 2008 (the "Termination Date"), is made by and between EQUITABLE RESOURCES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation ("Equitable"), and DOMINION RESOURCES, INC., a Virginia corporation ("Dominion").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, Equitable and Dominion (as successor by merger to Consolidated Natural Gas Company) are parties to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2006, as amended (the "SPA"); and
 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to terminate the SPA and abandon the transactions contemplated therein, pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth below.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, conditions and agreements contained herein, and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
 
1.
              
Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the SPA.
 
2.
              
Pursuant to Section 9.1(a) of the SPA, the Parties hereby elect to terminate the SPA, effective as of the Termination Date.
 
3.
              
In accordance with Section 9.2(b) of the SPA, the Confidentiality Agreement shall survive in its entirety the termination of the SPA until the earlier of December 31, 2009 or the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission's issuance of a final order in a proceeding for regulatory approval of a subsequent sale of the Companies.  The Amended and Restated Confidentiality Agreement between the Parties, dated July 26, 2006, as amended (the "Sensitive Information Confidentiality Agreement") also survives in its entirety the termination of the SPA; provided that the reference to return or destruction requirements of Section 2 thereof shall not be triggered until notice thereof is provided by Dominion.  Dominion agrees not to demand return or destruction pursuant to the foregoing agreements during the pendancy of the matters known as (a) , Case No. 07-2499, and all appeals thereof and (b) , Docket No. 9322 (collectively, the "FTC Litigation").  Equitable shall take commercially reasonable measures to sequester any and all materials subject to the confidentiality obligations of the Confidentiality Agreement and the Sensitive Confidentiality Agreement, and shall access such materials solely as required in connection with the FTC Litigation and for no other purpose.
Federal Trade Commission v. Equitable Resources, Inc. et al. before the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
In the Matter of: Equitable Resources, Inc. et al before the Federal Trade Commission
 
 
4.
              
Each Party hereby releases the other Party and its trustees, directors, officers, employees, agents and Affiliates from each and all of their obligations and any claims and demands, in each case arising out of or in connection with the SPA, except with respect to (a) the Confidentiality Agreement; (b) the Sensitive Information Confidentiality Agreement; (c) claims of fraud; and (d) this Mutual Termination Agreement.  UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL EITHER PARTY, OR ITS AFFILIATES, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS, BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES RELATED TO LOST BUSINESS, LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF USE, AND LOSS OF DATA, OR FAILURE TO REALIZE SAVINGS OR BENEFITS) ARISING UNDER THE SPA, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Equitable and Dominion have executed this Agreement effective as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
                 
Dominion to pursue other offers for purchase of the two utilities
 
                 
Equitable cites need to focus on other significant organic growth opportunities
 
RICHMOND, Va. and PITTSBURGH, Pa.(January 15, 2007)  Dominion (NYSE: D) and Equitable Resources, Inc. (NYSE: EQT) announced today that they have terminated their agreement for the purchase of the Dominion Peoples and Dominion Hope natural gas distribution companies by Equitable.
 
"Given the continued delay in achieving the final regulatory approvals for this transaction, we believe it is best to terminate our agreement," Thomas F. Farrell II, Dominion chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Murry S. Gerber, Equitable chairman and chief executive officer, said in a joint statement. "While we remain convinced that customers would have benefited from the transaction and are disappointed that it could not be completed in a timely manner, we recognize that it is time to move forward."
 
Dominion also announced that it plans to seek other offers for the purchase of the utilities.
 
"These are high-quality assets," Farrell said. "Dominion has received a number of unsolicited inquiries in recent months from others expressing an interest in acquiring Dominion Peoples and Dominion Hope. We now will contact those companies as well as other potential buyers. In light of the regulatory groundwork done since the agreement with Equitable was announced, we anticipate moving quickly to seek the required approvals once a new buyer has been identified."
 
In making its decision, Equitable cited the need to focus on significant organic growth opportunities in other parts of its business.
"We have decided to focus our growth efforts on exciting strategic opportunities for expanded horizontal drilling and infrastructure development in the Appalachian Basin," Gerber said. "That growth will add jobs and contribute substantially to the economic revitalization of western Pennsylvania and the other communities in which we invest."
 
Dominion and Equitable in March 2006 announced a sales agreement for about $970 million plus adjustments to reflect capital expenditures and changes in working capital. The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved the sale of Dominion Peoples in April 2007.   Approval of the Dominion Hope sale is still pending before the West Virginia Public Service Commission. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) opposed the sale in Pennsylvania.  On May 14, 2007, a federal judge ruled against the FTC's request for an injunction to prevent the Dominion Peoples sale. The FTC appealed this ruling to the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals.  On June 1, 2007, the Third Circuit granted the FTC's request to enjoin the sale pending the court's decision. The FTC's appeal remains pending before the Third Circuit.
 
Dominion Peoples serves about 359,000 homes and businesses in Pennsylvania from its headquarters in Pittsburgh, and Dominion Hope serves about 115,000 homes and businesses in West Virginia from its headquarters in Clarksburg, W.Va. Together, they serve less than 12 percent of Dominion's 4 million electric and natural gas local distribution customer accounts in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest.
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. will remain as Dominion's financial adviser in any transaction and McGuireWoods LLP will provide legal services.
 
Dominion is one of the nation's largest producers and transporters of energy, with a portfolio of approximately 26,500 megawatts of generation, 7,800 miles of natural gas transmission pipeline and 1 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe) of proved natural gas and oil reserves. Dominion also owns and operates the nation's largest underground natural gas storage system with about 960 billion cubic feet of storage capacity and serves retail energy customers in 11 states. For more information about Dominion, visit the company's Web site at http://www.dom.com.
 
Equitable Resources is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas supply, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution. For information, please visit Equitable's website, http://www.eqt.com.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
Disclosures in this press release contain forward-looking statements. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking. Without limiting the generality of the forgoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include Equitable's organic growth opportunities. A variety of factors could cause Equitable's actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the results of Equitable's forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors,", of Equitable's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and Equitable does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


