FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20090729070148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
                          
July 29, 2009
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
         
(412) 553-5700
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.
      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 
Today, EQT Corporation ("EQT") issued a press release announcing its 2009 second quarter earnings.  A copy of EQT's press release is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
99.1  Press release dated July 29, 2009  issued by EQT Corporation
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  July 29, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PITTSBURGH, July 29, 2009/ PRNewswire-FirstCall/ EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) today announced second quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $0.20 on net income of $26.6 million and operating cash flow of $94.6 million.  This compares with EPS of $0.44 on net income of $55.4 million and operating cash flow of $161.9 million in the second quarter 2008.
--
 
Second quarter 2009 highlights include:
 
                 
Production sales of 24.4 Bcfe, 22% over the prior year and 6% higher than the first quarter 2009; and
 
                 
EQT increased its 2009 natural gas sales volume estimate from between 96 and 97 Bcfe to between 98 and 100 Bcfe, 16-19% growth over 2008.
 
Operating income was $67.5 million, 33% lower than the second quarter 2008.  Lower commodity prices more than offset higher revenues from increased production, transmission, gathering and processing volumes and higher utility rates.  The impact of lower commodity prices on net operating revenue was $62.0 million.  In total, net operating revenues declined by $12.3 million from $215.7 million to $203.4 million.  Operating expenses, excluding purchased gas costs, increased by $21.4 million.  The unit costs to produce, gather, process and transport EQT's produced gas, excluding production taxes, were down 9.4% to $1.25 per Mcfe.
 
Quarterly Results by Business
 
EQT Production
 
EQT Production's operating income for the quarter totaled $33.6 million, $40.6 million lower than the $74.2 million earned in the same period last year.  Production operating revenues were $89.9 million, $35.0 million lower than the $124.9 million reported in 2008.  Average daily production sales volumes increased by 22%, driven by horizontal Huron shale drilling.  The revenue and operating income impacts of the increase in volumes were more than offset by lower realized natural gas prices.  The average wellhead natural gas sales price was $3.59 per MMBtu, 42% lower than in 2008.
 
Operating expenses for the quarter were $56.2 million compared to $50.8 million last year.  Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense (DD&A) was $8.8 million higher as a result of the company's drilling program and higher produced volumes.  Exploration expense was $4.4 million in the quarter.  EQT Production is performing a seismic study of 80 square miles in northern West Virginia, targeting deep zones below the company's current producing zones.  Partially offsetting this increase in expenses were a $5.8 million decrease in commodity-based production taxes and a $1.3 million reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
The company drilled a total of 167 gross wells in the second quarter 2009, including 70 horizontal Huron wells, 9 horizontal Berea wells and 7 horizontal Marcellus wells, and 4 fractured multilateral Huron wells.
 
Huron Play
 
The Huron development is the main driver of production sales growth in the quarter.  Since the fourth quarter 2006, EQT has completed 576 horizontal wells in the various Huron zones.  By the end of 2009 approximately 33% of EQT's production sales will be from horizontal Huron wells.  The cost per well of a single-leg horizontal Huron well is now approximately $1.0 million, 17% below the 2008 average cost of $1.2 million.  In total, EQT has 2.2 million acres in the Huron play with an average of more than two target zones per drill site.  The company has reported 1.5 Tcfe of proved, 2.5 Tcfe of probable, and 2.0 Tcfe of possible reserves in the Huron play as of December 31, 2008.
 
Marcellus Play
 
In the second quarter, EQT drilled 7 Marcellus horizontal wells.  To date, EQT has drilled 21 horizontal wells, with 8 on-line for more than 30 days.  Average 30-day initial production rates have been between 1.0 and 2.4 MMcfe per day.  The most recent Marcellus horizontal wells cost $3.3 million each, and the cost per well is expected to decrease to around $3.0 million.  Days-to-drill have been reduced from 35 days to 17 days, completion costs have been reduced from $3.2 million to $2.0 million and the projected average estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) from the wells that have been on-line for more than 30-days is 3.2 Bcfe per well.  Based on test results of all wells drilled, EUR is expected to average 3.5 Bcfe per well.  The company expects to drill 41 horizontal Marcellus wells in 2009.
 
EQT Midstream
 
EQT Midstream earned $32.8 million of operating income for the quarter, compared to $23.6 million reported for the same period last year.  Net operating revenues for the quarter were $81.2 million, 34% higher than last year's $60.6 million.  Net gathering revenues increased by $7.5 million, or 22%, driven by an 18% increase in gathering volumes, and net processing revenues increased by $1.0 million, or 11%, from higher liquids volumes.  Net transmission revenues increased by $7.1 million, or 66%, driven by revenues from the Big Sandy pipeline which was turned-in-line in the second quarter 2008.  Net storage, marketing and other revenues increased by $5.1 million, or 68%, primarily from reselling contracted Big Sandy pipeline capacity not currently being used to transport EQT Production gas.
 
Operating expenses increased year-over-year to $48.4 million, up from $36.9 million in the second quarter 2008.  The increase was primarily attributable to a $6.8 million increase in operating and maintenance costs (O&M) and a $5.0 million increase in DD&A.  The increases in O&M and DD&A were primarily due to higher costs associated with the growth in the EQT Midstream business, including increased electric costs, property taxes, and labor to operate the expanded gathering, processing and transmission infrastructure.
 
Distribution
 
Distribution's operating income totaled $9.4 million for the quarter compared to $2.0 million for the second quarter of 2008.  Net operating revenues were $32.4 million for the quarter compared to $30.1 million for the second quarter of 2008.  The $2.3 million increase in net operating revenues was primarily a result of higher rates approved by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission in February 2009.
Operating expenses totaled $23.0 million for the second quarter of 2009 compared to $28.1 million for the second quarter of 2008.  The $5.1 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily the result of lower bad debt and overhead expenses, partially offset by an increase in DD&A.
 
Other Business
 
Debt Issuance
 
During the quarter, the company completed a public offering of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 10-year, 8.125% Senior Notes.  The proceeds from the offering were used to repay short-term borrowings under the company's revolving credit facility and will fund part of the company's 2009 capital program.  At the end of the quarter, the company had $335.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and no short-term borrowings outstanding.
 
Hedging
 
EQT recognized a $41.8 million net gain from its production hedges in the quarter.  The company's production sales volumes are approximately 60% hedged for 2009.  There were no changes to the company's production hedge position in the quarter.  The company's total hedge positions for 2009 through 2011 production are:
 
 
* The above price is based on a conversion rate of 1.05 MMBtu/Mcf
**July through December
 
Operating Income
 
The company reports operating income by segment in this press release.  Both interest and income taxes are controlled on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis, and are not allocated to the segments.
The following table reconciles operating income by segment as reported in this press release to the consolidated operating income reported in the company's financial statements:
 
 
Unallocated expenses are primarily due to incentive compensation and administrative costs.  For each period presented, the difference between equity in earnings of nonconsolidated investments as reported on the company's statements of consolidated income and on EQT Midstream's operational and financial report is the earnings from the company's ownership interest in Appalachian Natural Gas Trust.
 
Non-GAAP Disclosures
 
Operating cash flow is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production company's ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred. Net operating revenues and operating expenses, excluding purchased gas cost are presented because they are important analytical measures used by management to evaluate period-to-period comparisons of revenue and cost trends. Purchased gas cost, which is subject to commodity price volatility, is paid by the purchasers of the company's natural gas products.  Operating cash flow, net operating revenue and operating expense, excluding purchased gas costs, should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities, operating revenues or operating expenses prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables below reconcile these non-GAAP disclosures to the most directly comparable GAAP numbers as derived from the financial statements to be included in the company's Form 10-Q for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008.
 
Operating Cash Flow
 
 
 
Net Operating Revenues / Operating Expenses, Excluding Purchased Gas Cost
 
 
Price Reconciliation
 
EQT Production's average wellhead sales price is calculated by allocating some revenues to EQT Midstream for the gathering, processing and transportation of the produced gas.  EQT Production's average wellhead sales price for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
 
Unit Costs
 
EQT's unit costs to produce, gather, process and transport EQT's produced natural gas were:
 
 
EQT's conference call with securities analysts, which begins at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time today, will be broadcast live via EQT's web site, http://www.eqt.com and on the Investor information page from the company's web site which is available at http://ir.eqt.com and will be available for seven days.
 
EQT is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com.  Investor information is available on EQT's web site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors Web pages.
 
EQT management speaks to investors from time to time.  Slides for these discussions will be available online via EQT's web site.  The slides may be updated periodically.
 
Cautionary Statements
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. The company uses the terms "probable", "possible", "potential" and other descriptions of volumes of reserves that may be recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines would prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and, accordingly, are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in the company's 2008 Form 10-K, File No. 001-03551 available from the company at 625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, Attention: Corporate Secretary. You can also obtain the company's Form 10-K from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
The company is unable to provide a reconciliation of its projected operating cash flow to projected net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of uncertainties associated with projecting future net income and changes in assets and liabilities.
 
Disclosures in this press release contain certain forward-looking statements. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance of the company and its subsidiaries, including guidance regarding the company's drilling and infrastructure programs, production and sales volumes, reserves, EUR, the expected decline curve, capital expenditures, financing requirements, projected operating cash flows, hedging strategy and tax position. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results.  Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  The company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events. While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control.  The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
 
Any forward-looking statement applies only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
(A)   Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's natural gas distribution and storage businesses, and the volatility of commodity prices, the interim statements for the three month periods are not indicative of results for a full year.
 
 
 
 
 


