FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20091029073733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)            
October 29, 2009
    
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(412) 553-5700
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting materials pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
        Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 2.02.
 
Today, EQT Corporation (EQT) issued a press release announcing its 2009 third quarter earnings.  A copy of EQTs press release is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01.
(d)  Exhibits
99.1  Press release dated October 29, 2009  issued by EQT Corporation
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  October 29, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 29 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) today announced third quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $0.02 on net income of $2.9 million and operating cash flow of $62.6 million.  This compares with EPS of $0.73 on net income of $96.2 million and operating cash flow of $205.4 million in the third quarter 2008.  Adjusting for long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses recorded in the third quarter 2009, EPS was $0.22.
 
Third quarter 2009 highlights include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating income was $39.9 million, 75% lower than the third quarter 2008.  Higher long-term incentive compensation expense and lower commodity prices more than offset higher revenues from increased production, gathering and processing volumes and higher utility rates.  Lower commodity prices reduced operating
income
by $47.1 million in the third quarter.  In total, net operating revenues declined by $10.9 million to $204.8 million.  Operating expenses, excluding purchased gas cost and long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses, increased by $5.8 million.
Quarterly Results by Business
 
EQT Production
 
EQT Production's operating income for the quarter totaled $31.5 million, $35.8 million lower than the same period last year.  Production operating revenues were $91.9 million; $30.2 million lower than in 2008.  Sales of produced natural gas increased by 18.5%, to 25.2 Bcfe; driven by horizontal air drilling in the Huron/Berea play.  Increased revenue and operating income from increased sales of produced natural gas was more than offset by lower wellhead natural gas prices.  The average wellhead natural gas price was $3.55 per Mcfe; 37% lower than in 2008 due to lower NYMEX prices.
 
 
 
 
Despite the 18.5% increase in sales of produced natural gas, operating expenses for the quarter were up only 10.2%, to $60.4 million.  Importantly, LOE was essentially unchanged over the third quarter of last year.  Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense (DD&A) was $9.8 million higher, mainly due to increases in produced volumes and the depletion rate.  Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $10.5 million, $2.0 million higher than last year and exploration expense was $4.5 million in the quarter; about a million dollars higher than last year.  Partially offsetting these cost increases was a $7.5 million decrease in commodity-based production taxes.
The combination of increased produced volumes and flat lease operating expenses resulted in an 11% period-to-period decrease in LOE to $0.32 per Mcfe; an industry leading result.  LOE plus production taxes yielded a unit rate of $0.58 per Mcfe for the quarter; 41% lower than last year.
Huron/Berea Play
 
Huron/Berea horizontal air drilling continued to be the main driver of sales of produced natural gas growth in the quarter.  In the third quarter, approximately 26% of EQTs sales of produced natural gas came from horizontal Huron and Berea wells, a 129% increase over third quarter 2008.  The company drilled 238 horizontal wells into the Huron and Berea during the first nine months and is on track to drill 348 horizontal wells in this play during 2009.  EQT has drilled 712 horizontal wells in this play since inception.
 
Approximately 90% of the horizontal Huron wells are single-leg horizontal wells with an average length of 3,700 feet.  Approximately 10% of the horizontal Huron wells are drilled using new geometries or techniques intended to increase production per well by increasing horizontal feet per well.  Year-to-date EQT has drilled 15 multi-lateral wells with a total lateral length of between 13,000 and 24,000 feet per well; and two extended lateral wells with a lateral length of 5,600
feet
per well; 66%
increase in pay
than a typical horizontal Huron/Berea well.  Early results are encouraging and the company expects to continue to experiment with both revised geometry multi-lateral and extended single-lateral wells, with an expectation that this will further increase estimated ultimate recoveries (EURs) and decrease unit F&D costs going forward.
 
Marcellus Play
 
EQT drilled 16 horizontal Marcellus wells and turned-in-line (TIL) four wells in the third quarter 2009.  One well in Greene County, Pennsylvania produced at an average rate of 9.0 MMcfe per day for the first 30 days of production.  The other three wells are in Doddridge County, West Virginia.  Two have been on-line for 30 days and averaged 1.5 MMcfe and 2.2 MMcfe per day for the first 30 days of production, respectively.  EQT has now drilled 34 horizontal wells in the Marcellus play since 2008.  Eleven of these wells have been on-line for more than 30 days.  The company is on track to drill 41 horizontal Marcellus wells in 2009.  Including vertical wells, EQT has drilled a total of 54 wells in this play since 2008.
Average 30-day initial production rates for horizontal Marcellus wells have ranged from 1.0 to 9.0 MMcfe per day.  EQT currently estimates ultimate recovery of 3.5 Bcfe from these wells.
Costs to drill and complete horizontal Marcellus wells continue to decrease.  The most recent wells have cost $3.0 million; a decrease of 45% during 2009.  With these improved costs, unit F&D costs for this play have thus far been reduced to $0.86 per Mcfe.
Total sales of produced natural gas from the Marcellus play is currently 17 MMcfe per day.  EQT expects this rate to more than double by year-end.
 
- 2 - -
 
 
EQT Midstream
 
EQT Midstream earned $37.9 million of operating income for the quarter, compared to $29.8 million reported for the same period last year.  Net operating revenues for the quarter were $87.5 million, 23% higher than last year.  Net gathering revenues increased $5.9 million, 16% higher; driven by an 8% increase in gathering volumes and higher gathering rates. Net processing revenues increased $3.5 million, 30% higher; NGLs sold increased by 50% while the average NGL sales price decreased by 48%.  Net transmission revenues increased by $5.1 million, 39% higher; driven by increased firm transportation revenues from our Big Sandy pipeline.  Net storage, marketing and other revenues increased by $1.8 million, 19% higher; due to increased sales to an industrial customer.
Operating expenses increased year-over-year to $49.7 million, up from $41.5 million in the third quarter 2008.  The increase was mainly attributable to a $5.4 million increase in operating and maintenance costs (O&M) and a $4.9 million increase in DD&A.  The increases in O&M and DD&A were primarily due to the growth in the EQT Midstream business, including increased electric costs, property taxes and labor to operate the expanded gathering, processing and transmission infrastructure.
Equitrans
 
EQT Midstream successfully completed an open season earlier this month for a proposed expansion of its Equitrans pipeline that will provide high-pressure gathering/transmission capacity for Marcellus production in Southwestern Pennsylvania and Northern West Virginia.  Total capacity demand indicated in the open season was 1,100,000 Dth per day.  The next steps are to continue the process of securing firm precedent agreements with shippers and obtain FERC approval.  The vast majority of the capital investment for the Equitrans expansion project would be invested beginning in the second half of 2011, pending FERC approval.
 
Distribution
 
Distributions operating income totaled $3.2 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a $1.8 million operating loss for the third quarter of 2008.  Net operating revenues were $25.3 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $22.4 million for the third quarter of 2008.  The $2.9 million increase in net operating revenues was primarily a result of higher rates approved by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission in February 2009. Operating expenses totaled $22.1 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $24.2 million for the third quarter of 2008.
 
Other Business
 
Long-term Incentive Compensation Programs
 
The company has executive long-term incentive compensation programs designed to align managements long-term incentive compensation with the absolute and relative returns earned by the companys shareholders.  The expense of these programs is mainly driven by changes in EQTs stock price and EQTs performance relative to a previously disclosed peer group.  The increase in stock price during the third quarter 2009 resulted in a total pre-tax long-term incentive compensation expense of $28.2 million, which reduced after tax net income by approximately $23 millionThis resulted in a $113.5 million swing in reported long-term incentive compensation expenses versus the $85.3 million reversal of previously recorded expenses in the third quarter 2008, as a result of the decrease in stock price during that period.
.  
 
- 3 - -
 
Office Relocation
The company completed its relocation from Pittsburghs North Shore to an office building located in downtown Pittsburgh, to accommodate its growth.  The company recognized an accounting charge of $4.1 million related to the move.
 
Hedging
 
EQT recognized a $45.4 million net gain from its production hedges in the quarter.  The companys sales of produced natural gas are approximately 60% hedged for 2009.  There were no changes to the companys production hedge position in the quarter.  The companys total hedge positions for 2009 through 2011 production are:
 
* The above price is based on a conversion rate of 1.05 MMBtu/Mcf
**October through December
Operating Income
 
The company reports operating income by segment in this press release.  Both interest and income taxes are controlled on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis, and are not allocated to the segments.
The following table reconciles operating income by segment as reported in this press release to the consolidated operating income reported in the companys financial statements:
 
- 4 - -
 
Unallocated (expenses) / income are primarily the result of long-term incentive compensation and administrative costs.  For each period presented, the difference between equity in earnings of nonconsolidated investments as reported on the company's statements of consolidated income and on EQT Midstreams operational and financial report is the earnings from the company's ownership interest in Appalachian Natural Gas Trust.
Price Reconciliation
 
EQT Production's average wellhead sales price is calculated by allocating some revenues to EQT Midstream for the gathering, processing and transportation of the produced gas.  EQT Productions average wellhead sales price for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
 
- 5 - -
 
Unit Costs
EQTs unit costs to produce, gather, process and transport EQT's produced natural gas were:
 
 
Non-GAAP Disclosures
 
Operating cash flow, net operating revenues, net income excluding long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses and operating expense excluding purchased gas cost and long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses, should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for net income, net cash provided by operating activities, operating revenues or operating expenses prepared in accordance with GAAP. The tables below reconcile the non-GAAP disclosures to the most directly comparable GAAP numbers as derived from the financial statements to be included in the company's Form 10-Q for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008.
Operating Cash Flow
 
Operating cash flow is presented because of its acceptance as an indicator of an oil and gas exploration and production companys ability to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service or incur additional debt. The company has also included this information because changes in operating assets and liabilities relate to the timing of cash receipts and disbursements which the company may not control and may not relate to the period in which the operating activities occurred.
 
- 6 - -
 
 
Net Operating Revenues
 
Net operating revenues is presented because it is an important analytical measure used by management to evaluate period-to-period comparisons of revenue.  Purchased gas cost, which is subject to commodity price volatility and a significant portion of which is passed on to customers with no net revenue impact, is typically excluded by management in such analyses.
Net Income Excluding Long-Term Incentive Compensation and Office Relocation Expenses
 
The third quarter results of 2009 and 2008 were impacted by long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses in the third quarter of 2009 and income from long-term incentive compensation expense reversals in the third quarter of 2008. Net income excluding long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses is presented because it is an important measure used by management to evaluate period-to-period comparisons of earnings trends.
 
- 7 - -
 
 
 
Operating Expenses Excluding Purchased Gas Cost and Long-Term Incentive Compensation and Office Relocation Expenses
 
Operating expenses excluding purchased gas cost and long-term incentive compensation and office relocation expenses is presented for comparability between periods and is a significant measure used by management in evaluating period-to-period cost trends.
 
EQT's conference call with securities analysts, which begins at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time today, will be broadcast live via EQT's web site, http://www.eqt.com and on the Investor information page from the companys web site which is available at http://ir.eqt.com, and will be available for seven days.
EQT is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the companys web site, http://www.eqt.com.  Investor information is available on EQTs web site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors Web pages.
EQT management speaks to investors from time to time.  Slides for these discussions will be available online via EQT's web site.  The slides may be updated periodically.
 
- 8 - -
 
Cautionary Statements
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. The company uses the terms "probable", "possible", "potential" and other descriptions of volumes of reserves that may be recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines would prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and, accordingly, are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in the company's 2008 Form 10-K, File No. 001-03551 available from the company at 625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, Attention: Corporate Secretary. You can also obtain the company's Form 10-K from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Total sales volumes per day at period end is an operational estimate of the daily sales volume on a typical day (excluding curtailments) at the end of the applicable period.
F&D costs for the Marcellus Play is estimated by dividing the cost per well of $3.0 million by the expected EUR of 3.5 Bcfe.
The company is unable to provide a reconciliation of its projected operating cash flow to projected net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of uncertainties associated with projecting future net income and changes in assets and liabilities.
Disclosures in this press release contain certain forward-looking statements. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance of the company and its subsidiaries, including guidance regarding the companys drilling and infrastructure programs (including the Equitrans expansion project) and technology, production and sales volumes, reserves, EUR, F&D costs, the expected decline curve, capital expenditures, financing requirements, projected operating cash flows, hedging strategy and tax position. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results.  Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  The company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events. While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the companys control.  The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the companys business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors of the companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
Any forward-looking statement applies only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
- 9 - -
 
 
- 10 - -
 
 
- 11 - -
 
 
- 12 - -
 
 
 
- 13 - -
 


