FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20100928070105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On September 27, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of EQT Corporation (the "Company") elected Stephen A. Thorington as an independent director of the Company, with a term expiring at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Mr. Thorington will serve as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board.
 
Mr. Thorington most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Plains Exploration & Production Company, retiring from that position in May 2006.  Mr. Thorington currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of KMG Chemicals, Inc., where he is a member of the Audit Committee and the Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 28, 2010, the Company issued a press release with respect to the matter described above, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. The information in this Item 7.01 of Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
99.1       Press release issued by EQT Corporation dated September 28, 2010.  (Furnished solely for purposes of Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
625 Liberty Avenue
Suite 1700
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
 
 
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 28, 2010  EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) today announced the election of a new member to its Board of Directors.
 
Stephen A. Thorington brings three decades of experience in energy company management, finance and corporate development, as well as natural gas exploration and production.  Thorington retired in 2006 from Plains Exploration and Production Co. having served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  He held similar executive management positions at Plains Resources, Inc., Ocean Energy, Inc., Seagull Energy Co. and The Chase Manhattan Bank.
 
"Stephen has a proven track record for creating shareholder value in the exploration and production industry," said David Porges, EQT President and Chief Executive Officer.  "We look forward to utilizing Stephen's broad experience to capture value from our extensive Appalachian Basin reserves."
 
Thorington will serve as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board.  Thorington also currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of KMG Chemicals, Inc. in Houston, TX.
 
Thorington resides in Houston.  He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Texas and a Masters of Business Administration degree from Rice University.
 
 
EQT Corporation is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com; Investor information is available on that site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT Corporation uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors web pages.


