FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20100209072942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code                   
(412) 553-5700
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 4, 2010, EQT Corporation (EQT) announced that Murry S. Gerber, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the Board, will step aside from his duties as CEO following the company's annual meeting of shareholders on April 21, 2010.  Mr. Gerber notified the company of his intent to step aside on February 3, 2010.  David L. Porges, currently EQT's President and Chief Operating officer, will become CEO.   To insure a smooth transition, Mr. Gerber will remain with EQT as Executive Chairman through EQT's 2011 annual meeting of shareholders.   
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 4, 2010, EQT issued a press release with respect to the matter described above, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01 of Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Act or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
99.1                 Press release issued by EQT Corporation dated February 4, 2010.  (Furnished solely for purposes of Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K).
Disclosures in this Form 8-K contain forward-looking statements.  Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Form 8-K specifically include the expectations of management changes and growth. Investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  The company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events.  While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the company's Form 10-K filed for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in the company's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 to be filed with the SEC, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
 
 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  February 9, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH, Feb. 4/ PRNewswire-FirstCall/ --EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT), the Pittsburgh-based energy company, announced today that Murry S. Gerber, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, will step aside from his duties as CEO following the company's annual meeting on April 21, 2010.  David L. Porges, currently EQT's President and Chief Operating Officer, will take over as CEO.
 
To ensure a smooth transition, Mr. Gerber will remain with the company as Executive Chairman through its next annual meeting in April 2011.  In addition to devoting more time to family and outside business interests, he will continue to be active in advancing the interests of the natural gas industry on public policy and commercial issues and in working to develop Western Pennsylvania as a new energy center of the United States.
 
Mr. Gerber turns over the reins after twelve years as CEO.  EQT hired him into the position in June 1998.   Porges, Gerber's long-time colleague even before their arrival at EQT, also started with the company in 1998 as Chief Financial Officer.
 
At the outset, the two experienced industry executives from Texas encountered a company closely identified with its local utility business, but nevertheless struggling to manage a patchwork portfolio of far-flung energy ventures.  Over the next decade, EQT shed its non-core businesses in favor of aggressive development of regional natural gas-producing assets and midstream infrastructure.
 
That bet paid off handsomely for shareholders.  EQT quietly has transformed itself from a regional utility to the largest natural gas producer in the Appalachian Basin.  As of this date, investors who held shares for the entire length of Mr. Gerber's tenure as CEO saw a 666% increase in the value of their holdings.
 
The prospects for future growth are equally bright as Mr. Porges prepares to take over the top job. EQT has had great recent success in developing the company's considerable shale reserves in the Huron and Marcellus, among other Appalachian properties.
 
In commenting upon the timing of the transition, Mr. Gerber cited the company's solid growth prospects, along with its overall financial health and the knowledge and experience of his successor:  "Dave Porges has been with me from the beginning, and together with an exceptionally talented workforce, we've transformed EQT into a resilient company capable not only of weathering the recent economic crisis, but also well-positioned to leverage our position as the leading natural gas producer in Appalachia." 
 
The selection of Porges as Gerber's successor was a natural one.  His role in the number two spot had expanded steadily, beginning with the CFO job and culminating in his current position as President and COO for the last two years.  Porges has been a member of the EQT Board of Directors since 2002.  Before joining EQT, Porges held various management positions with Exxon and then spent over a decade with Bankers Trust Corporation in a variety of financing and advisory roles, all of which involved the energy industry.  Porges holds an MBA from Stanford and a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering and management sciences from Northwestern University.
 
"Though we will all miss Murry's day-to-day leadership, this is an exciting time to be in our business, and EQT has exciting growth opportunities," said Porges.  "EQT has a strong and deep management team quite capable of continuing to deliver the kind of shareholder value our investors have come to expect of EQT."
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
Disclosures in this press release contain certain forward-looking statements. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include the expectations of management changes and growth. The company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events. While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control.  The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 to be filed with the SEC, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
 
Any forward-looking statement applies only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
EQT is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com.  Investor information is available on EQT's web site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors web pages.
 
 
 


