FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20100309163341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 9, 2010, the Company made available certain presentation material in connection with its offering of 12,500,000 shares of its common stock, no par value.  A copy of the presentation material is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.  The information in this Item 7.01 of Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Disclosures in this Form 8-K contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act.  Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in the presentation incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, including guidance regarding the Company's drilling and infrastructure programs (including the Equitrans expansion project) and technology, the estimated number of acres to be held in the high-pressure Marcellus fairway following and the timing of the closing of the transaction described in the Company's Form 8-K dated March 2, 2010, the expected decline curve, total resource potential, production and sales volumes, reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries, F&D costs, reserve replacement ratio, capital commitments and capital expenditures, capital budget, financing plans (including number of shares to be sold in this offering), dividend rate, projected operating cash flows, hedging strategy, growth rate, rates of return, net asset value/share, and tax position (including tax refunds).  These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results.  Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. The Company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events. While the Company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the Company's control. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the Company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.  Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
(d) Exhibit.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 


