FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20100302073057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
                 
(412) 553-5700
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 3.02 
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
.
 
EQT Production Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of EQT Corporation (the "Buyer"), and EQT Corporation ("EQT") have entered into agreements (collectively, the "Agreements") with certain sellers (collectively, the "Sellers")
, dated as of February 25, 2010.  Pursuant to the Agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Buyer will acquire the Sellers' interests in certain Marcellus Shale oil and gas properties located primarily in Cameron, Clearfield, Elk and Jefferson Counties, Pennsylvania, including approximately 58,000 net leased or fee acres, 100 producing wells and 200 miles of gathering lines and other facilities (the "Acquisition Properties").  The Buyer will pay an aggregate of approximately $280 million (subject to customary purchase price adjustments) to the Sellers for the Acquisition Properties.  Approximately ninety percent (90%) of the purchase price is expected to be paid by the delivery of EQT common stock, no par value (the "Shares"), with the balance to be paid in cash.
 
At the closing of each Agreement, the applicable Sellers are expected to receive a number of shares determined by dividing ninety percent (90%) of the applicable purchase price by the arithmetic average of the daily volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") for EQT's common stock for the twenty consecutive trading days ending on the fourth business day prior to the closing date of the applicable Agreement, subject to a requirement that the Sellers receive, in the aggregate, no more than 6.4 million Shares and no less than 5.1 million Shares, in each case subject to customary purchase price adjustments.
 
The Shares to be issued to the Sellers, will be issued in reliance upon Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated under the Act.  At the closings, EQT and the Sellers will enter into registration rights agreements which will provide for EQT to register under the Act the Shares for resale by the Sellers and will contain customary indemnification and other provisions.  In addition, the Sellers will also enter into lock-up agreements with EQT which will provide, among other things, that during each period of 30-days in the six months following the closings, the Sellers will limit sales and other dispositions to ten percent (10%) of the total Shares.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 2, 2010, EQT issued a press release with respect to the transaction described above, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. The information in this Item 7.01 of Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Act or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
99.1                 Press release issued by EQT Corporation dated March 2, 2010.  (Furnished solely for purposes of Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K).
 
Disclosures in this Form 8-K contain forward-looking statements.  Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Form 8-K specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives and growth, including guidance regarding the expected form and amount of consideration to be paid for the assets to be acquired, the estimated number of acres and potential drilling locations to be held in the high-pressure Marcellus fairway following the acquisition and timing of closing of the pending acquisition, infrastructure programs, project development costs, and estimated ultimate recoveries. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results.  Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  The company has based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events.  While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the company's Form 10-K filed for the year ended December 31, 2009 as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PITTSBURGH, March 2, 2010/ PRNewswire-FirstCall/ - --EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) today announced that it will acquire approximately 58,000 net acres in the Marcellus Shale from a group of private operators and landowners.  The acreage is located primarily in Cameron, Clearfield, Elk and Jefferson counties in Pennsylvania.  The purchase includes a 200 mile gathering system, with associated rights of way, and approximately 100 producing vertical wells.
 
At closing, EQT will pay approximately $280 million, 90% with EQT stock and 10% with cash.  Following the closing of the acquisition, EQT will hold more than 500,000 net acres in the high-pressure Marcellus shale fairway. The company expects the transaction to close by April 30, subject to customary closing conditions.
 
"We are pleased to add to our substantial, firmly held acreage position in the heart of the Marcellus fairway.  We have extensive midstream assets and firm contracts to gather and transport natural gas to the lucrative eastern markets," commented Murry Gerber, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are receiving a 93% net revenue interest on the acquired acreage, which is significantly higher than the 80% net revenue interest that has been typical of recent transactions.  Approximately 88% of the acquired acreage will be held in fee or by production from existing vertical wells and the remainder of the acreage will be subject to leases with a weighted average 10-year term."
 
Marcellus Well Update
 
"The Marcellus well results continue to exceed our expectations, therefore we are increasing our average estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) per well from between 3.5 and 4 Bcfe, to between 4 and 4.5 Bcfe across our 500,000 acres.  We will continue to update our EUR estimates as we obtain additional well result data.  At an average cost of $3.0 million per well, EQT's development cost is estimated to be less than $0.75 per Mcf, which is among the lowest in the industry," Gerber said.
 
The 30-day average initial production rate for the company's seven wells completed in 2010, averaged 7.0 MMcfe per day; ranging between 2.7 MMcfe and 15.8 MMcfe per day.  This average includes results from the company's most recent well, well 170 in Greene County, Pennsylvania, which has a 30-day average initial production rate of 15.8 MMcfe per day.  This well is located on the same pad as the previously announced Greene County, Pennsylvania well (well 167) which had a 30-day average initial production rate of 14.3 MMcfe per day.
 
Cautionary Statements
 
Disclosures in this press release contain forward-looking statements.  Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this press release specifically include the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives and growth, including guidance regarding the expected form and amount of consideration to be paid for the assets to be acquired, the estimated number of acres and potential drilling locations to be held in the high-pressure Marcellus fairway following the acquisition and timing of the closing of the pending acquisition, infrastructure programs, projected
 
 
development costs, and estimated ultimate recoveries.  These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results.  Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about the future events.  While the company considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control.  The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the company's business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of the company's Form 10-K filed for the year ended December 31, 2009, as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs.
 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
EQT Corporation is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com; Investor information is available on that site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT Corporation uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors web pages.
 


