FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20100430130327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On April 30, 2010, EQT Production Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of EQT Corporation, and EQT Corporation ("EQT") completed initial closings under the several agreements (the "Agreements") described in EQT's Form 8-K dated March 2, 2010.  At the initial closings, which represented approximately 80% of the anticipated total
acres
to be acquired
, EQT paid $24,041,872 in cash and issued an aggregate of 4,976,270 shares of its common stock as payment.  The Company expects to close on the remaining assets
as sellers take curative actions typical for Appalachian Basin properties.
 
 
In accordance with registration rights agreements entered into at the initial closings of the Agreements, the shares of common stock issued pursuant to each Agreement have been registered for resale under the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-148154) (the "Registration Statement"), as supplemented by the prospectus supplement filed April 30, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement") with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Opinion and Consent of Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC as to the validity of the shares of common stock of the Company being offered and sold by the respective selling shareholders pursuant to the Registration Statement as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement are each filed herewith and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
 
In addition, at the initial closings EQT entered into lock-up agreements with respect to the shares of common stock issued pursuant to each of the Agreements which provide, among other matters, that during each period of 30-days in the six months following the initial closing, sales and certain other dispositions of the shares of common stock issued pursuant to each Agreement are limited to ten percent (10%) of the total shares of common stock issued at the initial closing of that Agreement and at any subsequent closing of that Agreement.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed or furnished in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
EQT Corporation EQT Plaza 625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222 Attention: Lewis B. Gardner, Esq. Vice President and General Counsel
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel to EQT Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Corporation"), in connection with the proposed issuance by the Corporation of up to 4,976,270 shares (the "Selling Shareholders' Shares") of the Corporation's common stock, no par value, in connection with the Corporation's filing of a prospectus supplement, dated April 30, 2010, and the accompanying prospectus, dated December 19, 2007, filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (collectively, the "Prospectus Supplement"), covering the offering and potential resale by the Selling Shareholders named therein of 4,976,270 Selling Shareholders' Shares. The Prospectus Supplement forms a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-148154) filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on December 19, 2007 (the "Registration Statement").
 
We have examined and relied upon the Prospectus Supplement, the Registration Statement, the purchase agreements between the Corporation and the various sellers of assets named therein, the Restated Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Corporation, certain resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and/or committees thereof relating to the original issuance and sale of the Selling Shareholders' Shares as provided to us by the Corporation, and originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents and records and have made such investigation of fact and such examination of law as we have deemed appropriate in order to enable us to render the opinion set forth herein.
 
In our examination of the documents described above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individual signatories, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of such original documents and the completeness and accuracy of all such documents provided to us by the Corporation. As to any facts material to the opinion expressed herein, we have, when such facts were not independently established, relied upon certificates of public officials and certificates, oaths, declarations and representations of the Corporation and of its officers, directors and other representatives.
 
We have assumed that, other than with respect to the Corporation, all of the documents referred to in this opinion letter have been duly authorized by, have duly executed and delivered by, and constitute the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of, all of the parties to such documents, all of the signatories to such documents have been duly authorized and all such parties are duly organized and validly existing and have the power and authority (corporate or other) to execute, deliver and perform such documents.
 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Selling Shareholders' Shares are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
 
We express no opinion as to the applicability or compliance with or effect of federal law or the law of any other jurisdiction other than the Business Corporation Law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of these sources of law or subsequent legal or factual developments which might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
 
This opinion is being duly delivered in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Act.  We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the SEC as Exhibit 5.1 to a Current Report on Form 8-K and to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the SEC.
 
It is understood that this opinion is to be used only in connection with the resale of the Selling Shareholders' Shares by the Selling Shareholders while the Registration Statement is in effect.
 
 


