FILE:EQT/EQT-8K-20120110165622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Resignation of Director
 
EQT Corporation (the "Company" or "EQT") received from Murry S. Gerber, a director of the Company, written notice that he would resign as a director of the Company effective January 5, 2012.  Mr. Gerber's decision was not the result of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.  Mr. Gerber has joined the Board of Directors of Halliburton Company.
 
Election of New Directors
 
On January 6, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Kenneth M. Burke and Margaret K. Dorman as independent directors of the Company, with terms expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Ms. Dorman and Mr. Burke will both serve as members of the Audit Committee.
 
Mr. Burke spent most of his career serving as a Partner with Ernst & Young LLP, retiring from that position in 2004.   From March 2005 to August 2011, Mr. Burke was a member of the Board of Directors of Trico Marine Services, Inc., serving as Chair of its Audit Committee and as a member of its Nominating & Governance Committee.  From December 2006 to May 2011, Mr. Burke also served as a member of the Board of Directors of Pride International, Inc., where he was the Chair of its Nominating and Governance Committee and a member of its Audit and Compensation Committees.
 
 Ms. Dorman most recently served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Smith International, Inc., retiring from that position in October 2009.   Ms. Dorman served as a member of the Board of Directors of Hanover Compressor Company from 2005 through 2007, including serving as Chair of Hanover's Audit Committee.
 
Mr. Burke and Ms. Dorman will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-employee directors of the Company, as described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2011.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 10, 2012, the Company issued two press releases with respect to the matters described above, copies of which are furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. The information in this Item 7.01 of Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
99.1       Press release issued by EQT Corporation dated January 10, 2012.  (Furnished solely for purposes of Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K).
 
99.2      Press release issued by EQT Corporation dated January 10, 2012. (Furnished solely for purposes of Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH, Jan. 10, 2012  EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) today announced the resignation of Murry Gerber from its Board of Directors, effective January 5, 2012.
 
Gerber, who joined the Board of Directors of Halliburton Company effective January 2012, resigned from EQT after serving for nearly 14 years with the Company in various leadership capacities. Gerber joined EQT as president and chief executive officer in June 1998.  He was elected as chairman in May 2000, serving this role through April 2010, when he was elected executive chairman serving in that role through May 2011.  Gerber led the evolution of EQT from an under-earning local distribution company, to the leading exploration and production company in the Appalachian Basin.  Under his leadership, EQT invested over $7 billion in the region; shareholders realized a total return of more than 890%; 22 times the return an investor in the S&P 500 would have realized; or 41%, over the same period; and increased its employee count from approximately 1,600 employees to approximately 1,800 employees.
 
During his tenure with EQT, Gerber served on numerous non-profit boards, including Allegheny Conference on Community Development, Pennsylvania Business Council, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, Carnegie Mellon University and at his alma mater, Augustana College.
 
"EQT thrived during Murry's years of service.  His legacy demonstrates that a commitment to earning returns on our shareholders' investments improves the wealth of the shareholders, our employees and the entire region," said David Porges, chairman, president and chief executive officer of EQT.  "EQT is committed to this principle and will continue to profitably invest in the success of our region."
 
 
"It has been an honor to serve this great company," said Gerber.  "The company has tremendous prospects and will serve a key role in the country's energy independence.  I wish the company's employees and investors continued success."
 
 
EQT Corporation is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com; Investor information is available on that site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT Corporation uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors web pages.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
625 Liberty Avenue
Suite 1700
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
 
PITTSBURGH, Jan. 10, 2012  EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) is pleased to announce the election of Kenneth M. Burke and Margaret K. Dorman as new members to its Board of Directors.
 
Ken Burke brings over three decades of experience focused on the energy industry, primarily oil and gas.  Burke retired from Ernst & Young LLP (E&Y) in 2004, where he held a number of leadership positions, including National Energy Director and Partner-in-Charge of the Houston Energy Services Group.  He also co-authored the book, "Oil and Gas Limited Partnerships: Accounting, Reporting and Taxation".  During his 32 years at E&Y, he also served as audit partner for numerous companies in the oil and gas industry.  Burke currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Valerus Compression Services and Nexeo, both private companies under the TPG Capital portfolio.  Burke resides in Houston, Texas and holds a Bachelor of Science, Accounting degree from the University of New Orleans.
 
Margaret Dorman brings significant leadership experience in finance and accounting in the energy industry. She retired from Smith International, Inc. in 2009 after serving for more than a decade as the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  Prior to being appointed to the CFO position at Smith, Dorman held other financial leadership roles at the company and at Landmark Graphics.  She began her career as an auditor with E&Y.  Dorman resides in Houston, Texas and holds a Bachelor of Arts, Economics-Business degree from Hendrix College.  Dorman is a Member of the Board of Trustees and Chair of the Finance Committee at Hendrix College.
 
Burke and Dorman will both serve as members of EQT's Audit Committee.
 
EQT Corporation is an integrated energy company with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission and distribution.  Additional information about the company can be obtained through the company's web site, http://www.eqt.com; Investor information is available on that site at http://ir.eqt.com.  EQT Corporation uses its web site as a channel of distribution of important information about the company, and routinely posts financial and other important information regarding the company and its financial condition and operations on the Investors web pages.
 


