Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion contains trend information and other forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Overview regarding growth for CMOS image sensor and NAND Flash markets and allocations of wafer starts to these products; in Net Sales regarding NAND Flash production in future periods and increases in revenue from sales of NAND Flash and Imaging products; in Selling, General and Administrative regarding SG&A expenses for the first quarter of 2007; in Research and Development regarding R&D costs for the first quarter of 2007; in Stock Based Compensation regarding increases in future stock based compensation costs; in Income Taxes regarding future provisions for income taxes and a reduction in the valuation allowance; and in Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding capital spending in 2007; and future capital contributions to IMFT and TECH. The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in Certain Factors. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 31, 2006. All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions. All production data reflects production of the Company and its TECH joint venture. Overview The Company is a global manufacturer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory products, and CMOS image sensors. The Company operates in two primary segments: Memory and Imaging. Its products are used in a broad range of electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including flash memory cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3 players and in automotive applications. The Companys customers are principally original equipment manufacturers located around the world. The Companys success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of a diversified semiconductor product portfolio, efficient utilization of the Companys manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and generation of sufficient return on research and development investments. The Company has strategically diversified its business by expanding into semiconductor products such as specialty memory products (including SDRAM, PSRAM, mobile SDRAM and reduced latency DRAM), NAND Flash memory products and CMOS image sensors. These products are used in a wider range of applications than the computing applications that use the Companys highest volume products, DDR and DDR2. The Company leverages its expertise in semiconductor memory manufacturing and product and process technology to provide these products that are differentiated from competitors products based on performance characteristics. In 2006, approximately half of the Companys sales were other than PC DRAM products. The Company expects that the markets for these products will grow in the near term more rapidly than the overall semiconductor market. The Company believes the strategic diversification of its product portfolio will strengthen its ability to allocate manufacturing resources to achieve the highest rate of return. As part of its diversification strategy the Company took several steps towards establishing a significant presence in the NAND Flash market in 2006. In January 2006, the Company partnered with Intel to form a NAND Flash manufacturing joint venture, IM Flash Technologies, LLC. IMFT initiated an accelerated build out and production ramp at two 300mm wafer fabrication facilities that are expected to greatly increase the Companys production of NAND Flash in 2007. In June 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc., a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a stock for stock merger. (See Recent Developments.) The Companys Imaging segment experienced strong growth in 2006 as net sales increased 147% from 2005 and represented 14% of the Companys net sales for 2006. The Company ramped production of Imaging products at a second wafer fabrication facility in 2006 and expects to continue to allocate an increasing portion of its manufacturing capacity to CMOS image sensors in 2007. The Company makes significant ongoing investments to implement its proprietary product and process technology in its facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia to manufacture semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs. The Company continues to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased megapixel count. The Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading edge line width process technology and innovative array architecture. 24 In order to maximize returns from investments in research and development (R&D), the Company develops process technology that effectively reduces production costs and leverages the Companys capital expenditures. To be successfully incorporated in customers end products, the Company must offer qualified semiconductor solutions at a time when customers are developing their design specifications for their end products. This is especially true for specialty memory products and CMOS image sensors, which are required to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance well ahead of a planned ramp of production to commercial volumes. In addition, DRAM and NAND Flash products necessarily incorporate highly advanced design and process technologies. The Company must make significant investments in R&D to expand its product offering and develop its leading edge product and process technologies. Recent Developments IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT): IMFT, which began operations on January 6, 2006, is a joint venture between the Company and Intel Corporation (Intel). IMFT manufactures NAND Flash memory products pursuant to NAND Flash designs developed by the Company and Intel and licensed to the Company. The parties share the output of IMFT generally in proportion to their investment in IMFT. IMFTs financial results are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. As a result of their contributions to IMFT, the Company owns 51% and Intel owns 49% of IMFT. (See 
 
