Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion contains trend information and other forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Overview regarding the costs and impact of restructure plans, the Companys DRAM development costs relative to Nanya, royalty payments from Inotera production, capital commitments for the Companys joint ventures with Nanya Technology Corporation, the supply of DRAM wafers from Inotera Memories, Inc. and manufacturing plans for CMOS image sensors; in Net Sales regarding increases in NAND Flash memory production; in Gross Margin regarding future charges for inventory write downs; in Restructure regarding the costs and impact of restructure plans; in Stock based Compensation regarding future stock based compensation costs; in Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding capital spending in 2009, plans to pay off certain debt, future distributions from IM Flash to Intel and future contributions to joint ventures; and in Recently Issued Accounting Standards regarding the impact from the adoption of new accounting standards. The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 28, 2008. All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions. All production data reflects production of the Company and its consolidated joint ventures. Overview The Company is a global manufacturer of semiconductor devices, principally semiconductor memory products (including DRAM and NAND Flash) and CMOS image sensors. The Company operates in two segments: Memory and Imaging. Its products are used in a broad range of electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including Flash memory cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and in automotive applications. The Company markets its products through its internal sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world. The Companys success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of a diversified portfolio of semiconductor memory products, efficient utilization of the Companys manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and generation of sufficient return on research and development investments. In 2008 and 2007 the semiconductor memory industry experienced a severe downturn due to a significant oversupply of products. Average selling prices per gigabit for the Companys DRAM products and NAND Flash products in 2008 were down approximately 50% and 65%, respectively, as compared to 2007 and down approximately 65% and 85%, respectively, as compared to 2006. As a result of these market conditions, the Company and other semiconductor memory manufacturers have reported negative gross margins and substantial losses in recent periods. In 2008, the Company reported a net loss $1.6 billion and many of its competitors reported negative cash flows from operations. In response to these market conditions, on October 9, 2008 the Company announced a plan to restructure its memory operations. The Companys IM Flash joint venture with Intel Corporation will discontinue production of 200mm wafer NAND flash memory at Microns Boise facility. The NAND Flash production shutdown will reduce IM Flashs NAND flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month. In addition, the Company and Intel agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication plant. As part of the restructuring, the Company plans to reduce its global workforce by approximately 15 percent during 2009 and 2010. Cash costs for restructuring and other related expenses incurred in connection with this restructuring are anticipated to be approximately $60 million, and the benefit to the Companys cash operating results for 2009 is expected to exceed $175 million. The effects of the worsening global economy and the tightening credit market are also making it increasingly difficult for semiconductor memory manufacturers to obtain external sources of financing to fund their operations. Although the Company believes that it is better positioned than some of its peers, it faces challenges in the current and near term that require it to continue to make significant improvements in its competitiveness. Additionally, the Company is pursuing financing alternatives, delaying capital expenditures and implementing further cost cutting initiatives. The Company is focused on improving its competitiveness by developing new products, advancing its technology and reducing costs. In addition, the Company increased its manufacturing capacity in 2008 and 2007 by ramping NAND Flash production at two 300mm wafer fabrication facilities and converting another facility to 300mm DRAM wafer fabrication. To reduce costs, the Company implemented restructure initiatives aimed at reducing manufacturing and overhead costs through outsourcing, relocation of operations and workforce reductions. 29 The Company makes significant ongoing investments to develop proprietary product and process technology that is implemented in its worldwide manufacturing facilities and through its joint ventures to enable the production of semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs. The Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading edge line width process technology and innovative array architecture. The Company continues to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased memory density and megapixel count. To leverage its significant investments in research and development, the Company has formed strategic joint ventures under which the costs of developing memory product and process technologies are shared with its joint venture partners. In addition, from time to time, the Company has also sold and or licensed technology to third parties. The Company is pursuing further opportunities to recover its investment in intellectual property through partnering and other arrangements. DRAM Joint Ventures with Nanya Technology Corporation (Nanya): In the third quarter of 2008, the Company and Nanya formed MeiYa, a joint venture to manufacture stack DRAM and sell those products exclusively to the Company and Nanya. As part of this transaction, the Company transferred and licensed certain intellectual property related to the manufacture of stack DRAM products to Nanya and licensed certain intellectual property from Nanya. The Company and Nanya also agreed to jointly develop process technology and designs to manufacture stack DRAM products with each party bearing its own development costs until such time that the development costs exceed a specified amount, following which such costs would be shared. The Companys development costs are expected to exceed Nanyas development costs by a significant amount. Under this arrangement, the Company is to receive an aggregate of $232 million from Nanya and MeiYa through 2010 for licensing and technology transfer fees, of which the Company realized $40 million of revenue in 2008. The Company will also receive royalties from Nanya on the sale of stack DRAM products manufactured by or for Nanya. On October 12, 2008, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Qimonda AGs 35.6% ownership stake in Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera), a Taiwanese DRAM memory manufacturer, for $400 million in cash. The Company received commitments for $285 million of term loans to fund this acquisition in part. Inotera is expected to implement the Companys stack DRAM process technology, and it is anticipated that the Company will receive royalties on the sale of Inoteras production that is delivered to Nanya, a 35.6% stakeholder in Inotera. The Company will eventually gain access to approximately 60,000 300mm DRAM wafers per month, 50% of Inoteras output. In connection with this acquisition, the Company expects to enter into a series of agreements with Nanya to restructure MeiYa. It is anticipated that both parties will cease future resource commitments to MeiYa and redirect those resources to Inotera. (See 
 
