Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion contains trend information and other forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Overview regarding Inoteras transition to the Companys stack process technology and anticipated margins and operating expenses for the Imaging segment in future periods; in Net Sales regarding DRAM production received from Inotera in 2010, future increases in NAND Flash production, and future Imaging revenue under an imaging wafer supply agreement with Aptina; in Gross Margin regarding future charges from Inotera for underutilized capacity, future charges for inventory write downs, gross margins from the Companys imaging wafer supply agreement with Aptina; in Selling, General and Administrative regarding future legal expenses; in Research and Development regarding reductions of future research and development expenses in connection with the sale of a majority interest in Aptina; in Restructure regarding future levels of employees; in Stock based Compensation regarding future costs to be recognized; in Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding capital spending in 2010, future distributions from IM Flash to Intel and capital contributions to TECH; and in Recently Issued Accounting Standards regarding the impact from the adoption of new accounting standards. The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended September 3, 2009. All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions. The Companys fiscal 2009, which ended on September 3, 2009, contained 53 weeks and its fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 both contained 52 weeks. All production data includes production of the Company and its consolidated joint ventures and the Companys supply from Inotera. Overview The Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory. In addition the Company manufactures CMOS image sensor products under a wafer foundry arrangement. The Company operates in two reportable segments: Memory and Imaging. Its products are used in a broad range of electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including Flash memory cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and in automotive applications. The Company markets its products through its internal sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world. The Companys success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of a diversified portfolio of semiconductor products, efficient utilization of the Companys manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and generation of sufficient return on research and development investments. The Company has made significant investments to develop proprietary product and process technology that is implemented in its worldwide manufacturing facilities and through its joint ventures to enable the production of semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs. The Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading edge line width process technology and innovative array architecture. The Company continues to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased memory density. To leverage its significant investments in research and development, the Company has formed various strategic joint ventures under which the costs of developing memory product and process technologies are shared with its joint venture partners. In addition, from time to time, the Company has also sold and or licensed technology to other parties. The Company is pursuing additional opportunities to recover its investment in intellectual property through partnering and other arrangements. The semiconductor memory industry is experiencing a severe downturn due to a significant oversupply of products. The downturn has been exacerbated by global economic conditions which have adversely affected demand for semiconductor memory products. Average selling prices per gigabit for the Companys DRAM and NAND Flash products declined 52% and 56%, respectively, for 2009 as compared to 2008, after declining 51% and 67%, respectively, for 2008 as compared to 2007, and declining 23% and 56%, respectively, for 2007 as compared to 2006. These declines significantly outpaced the long term historical pricing trend. As a result of these market conditions, the Company and other semiconductor memory manufacturers reported substantial losses in recent periods. The Company reported a net loss of $1.8 billion for 2009 after reporting net losses of $1.6 billion for 2008 and $320 million for 2007. 27 In response to adverse market conditions, the Company initiated restructure plans in 2009, primarily within the Companys Memory segment. In the first quarter of 2009, IM Flash, a joint venture between the Company and Intel Corporation, terminated its agreement with the Company to obtain NAND Flash memory supply from the Companys Boise facility, reducing the Companys NAND Flash production by approximately 35,000 200mm wafers per month. The Company and Intel also agreed to suspend tooling and the ramp of NAND Flash production at IM Flashs Singapore wafer fabrication facility. In addition, the Company phased out all remaining 200mm DRAM wafer manufacturing operations at its Boise, Idaho, facility in the second half of 2009. Inotera Memories, Inc. (Inotera): In the first quarter of 2009, the Company acquired a 35.5% ownership interest in Inotera, a publicly traded entity in Taiwan, from Qimonda AG (Qimonda) for $398 million. The interest in Inotera was acquired for cash, a portion of which was funded from loan proceeds of $200 million received from Nan Ya Plastics Corporation and $85 million received from Inotera. Nan Ya Plastics is an affiliate of Nanya Technology Corporation (Nanya), a then 35.6% shareholder in Inotera. The loans were recorded at their fair values which reflect an aggregate discount of $31 million from their face amounts. This aggregate discount was recorded as a reduction of the Companys basis in its investment in Inotera. The Company also capitalized $10 million of costs and other fees incurred in connection with the acquisition. As a result of the above transactions, the initial carrying value of the Companys investment in Inotera was $377 million. On August 3, 2009, Inotera issued shares in a public offering for approximately $310 million that reduced the Company and Nanyas ownership in Inotera to 29.8% and 29.9%, respectively. As a result of Inoteras public offering, the Company will recognize a gain of $59 million in the first quarter of 2010. In connection with the acquisition of the shares in Inotera, the Company and Nanya entered into a supply agreement with Inotera (the Inotera Supply Agreement) pursuant to which Inotera will sell trench and stack DRAM products to the Company and Nanya. The Company has rights and obligations to purchase up to 50% of Inoteras wafer production capacity. Inoteras actual wafer production will vary from time to time based on market and other conditions. Inoteras trench production is expected to transition to the Companys stack process technology. Inotera charges the Company and Nanya for a portion of the costs associated with its underutilized capacity, if any. The cost to the Company of wafers purchased under the Inotera Supply Agreement is based on a margin sharing formula among the Company, Nanya and Inotera. Under such formula, all parties manufacturing costs related to wafers supplied by Inotera, as well as the Companys and Nanyas selling prices for the resale of products from wafers supplied by Inotera, are considered in determining costs for wafers from Inotera. Under the Inotera Supply Agreement. The Companys purchase obligation includes purchasing Inoteras trench DRAM capacity (less any trench DRAM products sold to Qimonda pursuant to a separate supply agreement between Inotera and Qimonda (the Qimonda Supply Agreement)). Under the Qimonda Supply Agreement, Qimonda was obligated to purchase trench DRAM products resulting from wafers started for it by Inotera through July 2009 in accordance with a ramp down schedule specified in the Qimonda Supply Agreement. In the second quarter of 2009, Qimonda filed for bankruptcy protection and defaulted on its obligations to purchase products from Inotera. Pursuant to the Companys obligations under the Inotera Supply Agreement, the Company recorded $95 million of charges to cost of goods sold in 2009 for underutilized capacity. The Companys results of operations for 2009 also include losses of $130 million for the Companys share of Inoteras losses from the acquisition date through the second calendar quarter of 2009. The Company accounts for its interest in Inotera under the equity method and does not consolidate Inotera. The Company recognizes its share of earnings or losses from Inotera for a period that lags the Companys fiscal periods by two months. As of September 3, 2009, the Company had recorded $3 million to accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet for cumulative translation adjustments for its investment in Inotera. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company received $50 million from Inotera pursuant to the terms of a technology transfer agreement. As of September 3, 2009, the carrying value of the Companys equity investment in Inotera was $229 million. (See 
 
