ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSAs used herein, "we," "our," "us" and similar terms include Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The following discussion contains trend information and other forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Operating Results by Business Segment" regarding future royalty and other payments from Nanya; future increases in NAND Flash production resulting from the continued ramp of production at IM Flashs new fabrication facility and lower underutilized capacity costs at the new IM flash fabrication facility in future periods; in "Selling, General and Administrative" regarding SG&A costs for the first quarter of 2012; in "Research and Development" regarding R&D costs for the first quarter of 2012; in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" regarding capital spending in 2012, future distributions from IM Flash to Intel, future contribution by us to IM Flash and the timing of payments for certain contractual obligations; and in "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" regarding the impact from the adoption of new accounting standards. Our actual results could differ materially from our historical results and those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 1A. Risk Factors." This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended September 1, 2011. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Our fiscal 2011, which ended on September 1, 2011, contained 52 weeks, our fiscal 2010 contained 52 weeks and our fiscal 2009 contained 53 weeks. All production data includes the production of our consolidated joint ventures and our other partnering arrangements. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions.Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. MD&A is organized as follows: Overview: Highlights of key transactions and events that impacted our 2011 results of operations.Results of Operation: An analysis of our financial results comparing 2011 to 2010 and comparing 2010 to 2009. Consolidated resultsOperating results by business segmentOperating results by productOperating expenses and other Liquidity and Capital Resources: An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows and discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity. Also includes our contractual obligations.Off Balance Sheet Arrangements: Contingent liabilities, commitments and off balance sheet arrangements outstanding as of September 1, 2011, including expected payment schedule.Critical Accounting Estimates: Accounting estimates that we believe are most important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and forecasts. Also includes changes in accounting standards.OverviewOur results of operations for 2011 were impacted by the following key transactions and events:Rambus Antitrust LitigationOn May 5, 2004, Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers alleging that the defendants harmed Rambus by engaging in concerted and unlawful efforts affecting Rambus DRAM ("RDRAM") by eliminating competition and stifling innovation in the market for computer memory technology and computer memory chips. Rambus complaint alleges various causes of action under California state law including, among other things, a conspiracy to restrict output and fix prices, a conspiracy to monopolize, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and unfair competition. Rambus is seeking a judgment for damages of approximately $3.9 billion, joint and several liability, trebling of damages awarded, punitive damages, a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaint, interest, and attorneys fees and costs. Trial began on June 20, 2011, and the case went to the jury on September 21, 2011. At the time of this filing, a jury verdict is pending. We cannot predict when a verdict will be reached or when a formal judgment would be entered by the Court subsequent to a verdict. On September 29, 2011, we entered into a judgment sharing agreement with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., a co defendant in the case, pursuant to which each party agreed, if found liable, to share equally any joint and several 28damages. In the event of an adverse judgment, we would anticipate filing appropriate post judgment motions and appeals. We may be required to post a bond or other security to stay enforcement of an adverse judgment pending appeal. Depending on the amount required, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain sufficient security to pursue an appeal. We are unable to predict the outcome of this lawsuit and therefore cannot determine the likelihood of loss nor estimate a range of possible loss. Accordingly, we have not provided an accrual for an adverse judgment in the September 1, 2011, financial statements. However, we have accrued a liability and charged operations for estimated costs to successfully defend the matter. An adverse judgment may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity.Numonyx Holdings B.V. ("Numonyx")On May 7, 2010, we acquired Numonyx, which manufactured and sold primarily NOR Flash and NAND Flash memory products. The total fair value of the consideration paid for Numonyx was $1,112 million and consisted of 137.7 million shares of our common stock issued to the Numonyx shareholders and 4.8 million restricted stock units issued to employees of Numonyx. In connection with the acquisition, we recorded net assets of $1,549 million. Because the fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price, we recognized a gain on the acquisition of $437 million in the third quarter of 2010. In addition, we recognized a $51 million income tax benefit in connection with the acquisition. (See "
 
