FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20050621143014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: June 21, 2005 _______________ EOG RESOURCES, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9743 47-0684736 (State or other (Commission File (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction Number) Identification of incorporation or No.) organization 333 Clay 77002 Suite 4200 (Zip code) Houston, Texas (Address of principal executive offices) 713/651-7000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) EOG RESOURCES, INC. Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. i) Amendment to Rights Plan On June 15, 2005, EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("EOG" or the "Company"), entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to its Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2000, as amended, between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. (as Rights Agent) (the "Rights Agreement") to modify the definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor" and to amend the Rights Agreement in certain other respects. Under the terms of the Amendment, a Qualified Institutional Investor is an institution that meets the following requirements: (1) such institutional investor is described in Rule 13d-1(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is eligible to report (and, if such institutional investor beneficially owns greater than 5% of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Company Common Stock"), then outstanding, does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Company Common Stock on Schedule 13G; (2) such institutional investor is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of the Company Common Stock; and (3) such institutional investor shall "Beneficially Own" less than 15% of the Company Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person who would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (3) above shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Company Common Stock for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Company Common Stock then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Company Common Stock then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Company Common Stock), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Company Common Stock then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all such Person's Affiliates and Associates). Under the terms of the Rights Agreement, a "Person" (other than the Company, any subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or any entity holding Company Common Stock for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) who does not meet the aforementioned exception is deemed an "Acquiring Person" if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the Company Common Stock. A copy of the Amendment is set forth as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment. ii) Employment Agreements On June 15, 2005, the Company entered into an Executive Employment Agreement with each of the executive officers listed below. Under the terms of each agreement, the executive officer is entitled to an annual base salary not less than that indicated below for each executive officer. In addition, the executive officer is eligible to participate in the Company's annual bonus plan for executive officers, and is eligible to receive certain other long-term incentives. Each agreement provides for a four-year term with automatic one-year renewals following the expiration of such initial term, unless either the Company or the executive officer provides 120 days notice of intent not to renew, or the agreement is otherwise terminated in accordance with its terms. Each agreement also includes certain severance benefits, post- employment non-competition provisions and confidentiality provisions. a) Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Under the terms of the agreement with Mr. Papa, he is entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $940,000. b) Edmund P. Segner, III, President and Chief of Staff. Under the terms of the agreement with Mr. Segner, he is entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $485,000. c) Loren M. Leiker, Executive Vice President, Exploration & Development. Under the terms of the agreement with Mr. Leiker, he is entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $445,000. d) Gary L. Thomas, Executive Vice President, Operations. Under the terms of the agreement with Mr. Thomas, he is entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $445,000. e) Barry Hunsaker, Jr., Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Under the terms of the agreement with Mr. Hunsaker, he is entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $366,000. Copies of each Executive Employment Agreement referenced above are set forth as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.5, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the respective agreement. iii) Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements On June 15, 2005, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement with each of the officers listed below. Under the terms of each agreement, if the officer is involuntarily terminated or terminates for good reason within two years of a change of control of the Company, or voluntarily terminates for any reason during a 30-day window beginning six months after a change of control of the Company, the Change of Control Agreement provides a) a minimum severance benefit of 2.99 times annual base salary plus two times target annual bonus, each as in effect prior to the change of control or if increased, on the date of termination, b) the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions and Savings Plan matching amounts that would have been made if the Named Officer had continued to be employed for three years, c) three years of medical and dental coverage, d) three years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical coverage, and e) outplacement services not to exceed $50,000. In addition, the Change of Control Agreements provide reimbursement for any excise tax, interest and penalties incurred if payments or benefits received due to a change of control would be subject to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code. a) Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. b) Edmund P. Segner, III, President and Chief of Staff. c) Loren M. Leiker, Executive Vice President, Exploration & Development. d) Gary L. Thomas, Executive Vice President, Operations. e) Barry Hunsaker, Jr., Senior Vice President and General Counsel. f) Timothy K. Driggers, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. Copies of each Change of Control Agreement referenced above are set forth as Exhibits 99.6 through 99.11, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the respective agreement. iv) Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan On June 15, 2005, the Company executed an Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan (the "Plan"). Under the terms of the Plan, in the event of a change of control (as defined in the Plan) of the Company, any eligible employee who is involuntarily terminated or terminates for good reason, both as defined in the Plan, within two years following the change of control will receive severance benefits equal to two weeks of base pay multiplied by the number of full or partial years of service, plus one month of base pay for each $10,000 (or portion of $10,000) included in the employee's annual base pay, plus one month of base pay for each 5% of annual incentive award opportunity under any approved plan. The minimum an employee can receive is six months of base pay. The maximum an employee can receive is the lesser of 2.99 times the employee's average W-2 earnings over the past five years or three times the sum of the employee's annual base pay and 100% of the employee's annual incentive award opportunity under any approved plan. In addition, the Plan provides reimbursement for any excise tax, interest and penalties incurred if payments or benefits received due to a change of control would be subject to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code. A copy of the Plan is set forth as Exhibit 99.12 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan. Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders. On June 15, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the entry into the Amendment. The effect of the Amendment on the holders of Company Common Stock is described in Item 1.01 of this Report on Form 8-K. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 4.1 Amendment, dated as of June 15, 2005, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2000, between EOG and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as amended. 99.1 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Mark G. Papa, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.2 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Edmund P. Segner, III, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.3 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Loren M. Leiker, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.4 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Gary L. Thomas, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.5 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.6 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Mark G. Papa, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.7 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Edmund P. Segner, III, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.8 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Loren M. Leiker, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.9 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Gary L. Thomas, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.10 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.11 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Timothy K. Driggers, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.12 Amended and Restated EOG Resources, Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. EOG RESOURCES, INC. Date: June 21, 2005 By: /s/ TIMOTHY K. DRIGGERS Timothy K. Driggers Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 4.1 Amendment, dated as of June 15, 2005, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2000, between EOG and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as amended. 99.1 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Mark G. Papa, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.2 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Edmund P. Segner, III, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.3 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Loren M. Leiker, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.4 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Gary L. Thomas, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.5 Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.6 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Mark G. Papa, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.7 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Edmund P. Segner, III, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.8 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Loren M. Leiker, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.9 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Gary L. Thomas, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.10 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.11 Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Timothy K. Driggers, dated as of June 15, 2005. 99.12 Amended and Restated EOG Resources, Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan.

EXHIBIT 4.1 AMENDMENT NO. 6 TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMENDMENT NO. 6 (this "Amendment No. 6"), dated as of June 15, 2005, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2000, as amended, by and between EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. (as Rights Agent) (the "Rights Agreement"). Terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Rights Agreement. WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed and entered into the Rights Agreement; and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with the provisions of such Section 27; and WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement to provide that any "Person" that is a "Qualified Institutional Investor" (as defined herein) will not be deemed an "Acquiring Person" (as defined in the Rights Agreement). NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Rights Agent hereby amend the Rights Agreement as follows: The definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor" that appears in Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Exchange Act (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the Common Shares of the Company, does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares of the Company on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares of the Company, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares of the Company for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares of the Company), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding." Section 18 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following paragraph to the end of such section: "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Rights Agent shall not be liable for any delays or failures in performance resulting from acts beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of God, terrorist acts, shortage of supply, breakdowns or malfunctions, power failures or mechanical difficulties with information storage or retrieval systems, labor difficulties, war, or civil unrest." Section 21 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following after the first sentence thereof: "In the event the transfer agency relationship in effect between the Company and the Rights Agent is terminated by the Company, the Rights Agent will be deemed to resign automatically on the effective date of such termination, and any notice required under the immediately preceding sentence will be sent by the Company rather than the Rights Agent." IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment No. 6 has been duly executed by the Company and the Rights Agent as of the day and year first written above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secrtary EQUISERVE TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (as Rights Agent) By: /s/ KEVIN LAURITA Name: Kevin Laurita Title: Managing Director

EXHIBIT 99.1 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement"), including the attached Exhibit "A," is entered into between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, having offices at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002 ("Employer"), and Mark G. Papa, an individual currently residing at 3706 Maranatha Drive, Sugar Land, Texas ("Employee"), to be effective as of June 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, Employer desires to continue to employ Employee pursuant to the terms and conditions and for the consideration set forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to continue in the employ of Employer pursuant to such terms and conditions and for such consideration. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained herein, Employer and Employee agree as follows: ARTICLE 1: EMPLOYMENT AND DUTIES: 1.1 Employer agrees to employ Employee, and Employee agrees to be employed by Employer, beginning as of the Effective Date and continuing until the last date of the Initial Term as set forth on Exhibit "A" or the last day of the one-year term for which the Term of this Agreement shall have been automatically renewed pursuant to the "Renewal" provision as set forth on Exhibit "A" (the "Term"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 1.2 Employee initially shall be employed in the position set forth on Exhibit A. Employee agrees to serve in the assigned position and to perform diligently and to the best of Employee's abilities the duties and services appertaining to such position as determined by Employer, as well as such additional or different duties and services appropriate to such position which Employee from time to time may be reasonably directed to perform by Employer. Employee shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time. 1.3 Employee shall, during the period of Employee's employment by Employer, devote Employee's full business time, energy, and best efforts to the business and affairs of Employer. Employee may not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business, investment, or activity that interferes with Employee's performance of Employee's duties hereunder, is contrary to the interests of Employer, or requires any significant portion of Employee's business time. 1.4 In connection with Employee's employment by Employer, Employer shall endeavor to provide Employee access to such confidential information pertaining to the business and services of Employer as is appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. Employer also shall endeavor to provide to Employee the opportunity to develop business relationships with those of Employer's clients and potential clients that are appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. 1.5 Employee acknowledges and agrees that, at all times during the employment relationship Employee owes fiduciary duties to Employer, including but not limited to the fiduciary duties of the highest loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer, to make full disclosure to Employer of all information that pertains to Employer's business and interests, to do no act which would injure Employer's business, its interests, or its reputation, and to refrain from using for Employee's own benefit or for the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that are entrusted to Employee or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon termination of the employment relationship, Employee shall continue to refrain from using for his own benefit or the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that were entrusted to Employee during the employment relationship or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee agrees that while employed by Employer and thereafter he shall not knowingly take any action which interferes with the internal relationships between Employer and its employees or representatives or interferes with the external relationships between Employer and third parties. 1.6 It is agreed that any direct or indirect interest in, connection with, or benefit from any outside activities, particularly commercial activities, which interest might in any way adversely affect Employer or any of its affiliates, involves a possible conflict of interest. In keeping with Employee's fiduciary duties to Employer, Employee agrees that during the employment relationship Employee shall not knowingly become involved in a conflict of interest with Employer or its affiliates, or upon discovery thereof, allow such a conflict to continue. Moreover, Employee agrees that Employee shall disclose to Employer's Board of Directors any facts which might involve such a conflict of interest that has not been approved by Employer's Board of Directors. Employer and Employee recognize that it is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of actions or interests which constitute a "conflict of interest." Moreover, Employer and Employee recognize there are many borderline situations. In some instances, full disclosure of facts by the Employee to Employer's Board of Directors may be all that is necessary to enable Employer or its affiliates to protect its interests. In others, if no improper motivation appears to exist and the interests of Employer or its affiliates have not suffered, prompt elimination of the outside interest will suffice. In still others, it may be necessary for Employer to terminate the employment relationship. Employer and Employee agree that Employer's determination as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be conclusive. Employer reserves the right to take such action as, in its judgment, will end the conflict. ARTICLE 2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS: 2.1 Employee's Annual Base Salary during the Term shall be not less than the amount set forth under the heading "Minimum Annual Base Salary" on Exhibit A, subject to increase at the sole discretion of the Employer, which shall be paid in accordance with Employer's standard payroll practice. Any calculation to be made under this Agreement with respect to Employee's Annual Base Salary shall be made using the then current Annual Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the event for which such calculation is made. 2.2 While employed by Employer (both during the Term and thereafter), Employee shall be allowed to participate, on the same basis generally as other employees of Employer, in all general employee benefit plans and programs, including improvements or modifications of the same, which on the effective date or thereafter are made available by Employer to all or substantially all of Employer's employees. Such benefit plans and programs may include, without limitation, medical coverage, dental coverage, life insurance, disability protection, and pension plans. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed or interpreted to provide greater rights, participation, coverage, or benefits under such benefit plans or programs than provided to similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of such benefit plans and programs. 2.3 Employer shall not by reason of this Article 2 be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing, any such incentive compensation or employee benefit program or plan, so long as such actions are similarly applicable to covered employees generally. Moreover, unless specifically provided for in a written plan document adopted by the Board of Directors of Employer, none of the benefits or arrangements described in this Article 2 shall be secured or funded in any way, and each shall instead constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future exclusively from the general assets of Employer. 2.4 Employer may withhold from any compensation, benefits, or amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling. ARTICLE 3: TERMINATION PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF TERM AND EFFECTS OF SUCH TERMINATION: 3.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employer shall have the right to terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of the Term for any of the following reasons: (i) For "cause" upon the determination by the Employer's Board of Directors that "cause" exists for the termination of the employment relationship. As used in this Section 3.1(i), the term "cause" shall mean [a] Employee's gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the duties and services required of Employee pursuant to this Agreement; [b] Employee's final conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude; [c] Employee's willful refusal without proper legal reason to perform the duties and responsibilities required of Employee under this Agreement which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [d] Employee's involvement in a conflict of interest as referenced in Section 1.6 for which Employer makes a determination to terminate the employment of Employee which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [e] Employee's willful engagement in conduct that Employee knows or should know is materially injurious to Employer; [f] Employee's material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or corporate code or policy which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; or [g] Employee's violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable United States law as proscribed by Section 8.1. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that the decision as to whether "cause" exists for termination of the employment relationship by Employer is delegated to Employer's Board of Directors for determination. If Employee disagrees with the decision reached by Employer's Board of Directors, the dispute will be limited to whether Employer's Board of Directors reached its decision in good faith; (ii) for any other reason whatsoever in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors of Employer; (iii) upon Employee's death; or (iv) upon Employee's becoming disabled so as to entitle Employee to benefits under Employer's long-term disability plan or, if Employee is not eligible to participate in such plan, then Employee is permanently and totally unable to perform Employee's duties for Employer as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment as supported by a written medical opinion to the foregoing effect by a physician selected by Employer. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Termination for Cause" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.4. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iii) as a result of Employee's death is specified in Section 3.6. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iv) as a result of the Employee becoming incapacitated is specified in Section 3.7. 3.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employee shall have the right to terminate the employment relationship under this Agreement at any time prior to the expira tion of the Term of employment for any of the following reasons: (i) a material breach by Employer of any material provision of this Agreement which remains uncorrected for 30 days following written notice of such breach by Employee to Employer; or (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, in the sole discretion of Employee. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Voluntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.3. 3.3 Upon a Voluntary Termination of the employment relationship by Employee prior to expiration of the Term, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate as of the date of termination. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.4 Upon a Termination for Cause prior to expiration of the Term, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate as of the date of termination. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.5 Upon an Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee prior to the expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled, in consideration of Employee's continuing obligations hereunder after such termination (including, without limitation, Employee's non-competition obligations), to receive a severance benefit under this Agreement equal to (a) the greater of (i) the amount that Employee would have received under this Agreement from the date of termination through the end of the Term of this Agreement if Employee had continued to be employed during such period, computed assuming that Employee received his Annual Base Salary and an annual bonus equal to the bonus target specified on Exhibit A for each year during such period (in each case prorated for any partial year) or (ii) two times the sum of the Employee's Annual Base Salary and the annual bonus target specified on Exhibit A; plus (b) the value of unvested stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under Employer's 1992 Stock Plan, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, based on the difference between the average closing price of Employer's stock on the ten (10) trading days prior to, but not including, the date of termination and the grant price. Employee shall not be under any duty or obligation to seek or accept other employment following Involuntary Termination and the amounts due Employee hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if Employee accepts subsequent employment. Employee's rights under this Section 3.5 are Employee's sole and exclusive rights against Employer and Employer's sole and exclusive liability to Employee under this Agreement, in contract, tort, or otherwise, for any Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship. Employee covenants not to sue or lodge any claim, demand or cause of action against Employer for any sums for Involuntary Termination other than those sums specified in this Section 3.5. If Employee breaches this covenant, Employer shall be entitled to recover from Employee all sums expended by Employer (including costs and attorneys fees) in connection with such suit, claim, demand or cause of action. 3.6 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's death, Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall be entitled to Employee's pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.7 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's incapacity, Employee shall be entitled to his or her pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.8 In all cases, the compensation and benefits payable to Employee under this Agreement upon termination of the employment relationship shall be offset against any amounts to which Employee may otherwise be entitled under any and all severance plans, and policies of Employer or its affiliates. 3.9 Termination of the employment relationship does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Employee's obligations under Articles 5 and 6. 3.10 Upon termination of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to receive compensation and benefits earned and accrued by Employee during his/her employment as are specifically provided in any applicable employee compensation and/or benefit plan document and any grant or award agreement thereunder. 3.11 The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. ARTICLE 4: CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT BEYOND TERM; TERMINATION AND EFFECTS OF TERMINATION: 4.1 After the expiration of the Term specified on Exhibit "A," this Agreement, and Employee's employment hereunder, shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year each, unless either Employer or Employee provides not less than one hundred twenty (120) days' prior written notice of intent not to renew. In the event this Agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice, and Employee remains employed by Employer beyond the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, including any renewals, Employee's employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. Upon such termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. ARTICLE 5: OWNERSHIP AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS: 5.1 All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, whether patentable or not, which are conceived, made, developed or acquired by Employee, individually or in conjunction with others, during Employee's employment by Employer (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise) which relate to Employer's business, products or services (including, without limitation, all such information relating to corporate opportunities, research, financial and sales data, pricing and trading terms, evaluations, opinions, interpretations, acquisition prospects, the identity of customers or their requirements, the identity of key contacts within the customer's organizations or within the organization of acquisition prospects, or marketing and merchandising techniques, prospective names, and marks) shall be disclosed to Employer and are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. Moreover, all drawings, memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps and all other writings or materials of any type embodying any of such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. 5.2 Employee acknowledges that the business of Employer and its affiliates is highly competitive and that their strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, their technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning their customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which Employer or its affiliates use in their business to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Employee further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to Employer and its affiliates in maintaining their competitive position. Employee hereby agrees that Employee will not, at any time during or after his or her employment by Employer, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his or her employment responsibilities hereunder. As a result of Employee's employment by Employer, Employee may also from time to time have access to, or knowledge of, confidential business information or trade secrets of third parties, such as customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, and the like, of Employer and its affiliates. Employee also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of such third party confidential information and trade secrets to the same extent, and on the same basis, as Employer's confidential business information and trade secrets. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 5 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 5 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 5, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 5.3 All written materials, records, and other documents made by, or coming into the possession of, Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer which contain or disclose confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates shall be and remain the property of Employer or its affiliates, as the case may be. Upon termination of Employee's employment by Employer, for any reason, Employee promptly shall deliver the same, and all copies thereof, to Employer. 5.4 If, during Employee's employment by Employer, Employee creates any original work of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression which is the subject matter of copyright (such as videotapes, written presentations on acquisitions, computer programs, drawings, maps, architectural renditions, models, manuals, brochures, or the like) relating to Employer's business, products, or services, whether such work is created solely by Employee or jointly with others (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise), Employee shall disclose such work to Employer. Employer shall be deemed the author of such work if the work is prepared by Employee in the scope of his or her employment; or, if the work is not prepared by Employee within the scope of his or her employment but is specially ordered by Employer as a contribution to a collective work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, as a translation, as a supplementary work, as a compilation, or as an instructional text, then the work shall be considered to be work made for hire and Employer shall be the author of the work. If such work is neither prepared by the Employee within the scope of his or her employment nor a work specially ordered and is deemed to be a work made for hire, then Employee hereby agrees to assign, and by these presents does assign, to Employer all of Employee's world wide right, title, and interest in and to such work and all rights of copyright therein. 5.5 Both during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and thereafter, Employee shall assist Employer and its nominee, at any time, in the protection of Employer's worldwide right, title, and interest in and to information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, and its copyrighted works, including without limitation, the execution of all formal assignment documents requested by Employer or its nominee and the execution of all lawful oaths and applications for applications for patents and registration of copyright in the United States and foreign countries. ARTICLE 6: POST-EMPLOYMENT NON-COMPETITION OBLIGATIONS: 6.1 As part of the consideration for the compensation and benefits to be paid to Employee hereunder, in keeping with Employee's duties as a fiduciary and in order to protect Employer's interests in the confidential information of Employer and the business relationships developed by Employee with the clients and potential clients of Employer, and as an additional incentive for Employer to enter into this Agreement, Employer and Employee agree to the non-competition provisions of this Article 6. Employee agrees that during the period of Employee's non- competition obligations hereunder, Employee will not, directly or indirectly for Employee or for others, in any geographic area or market where Employer or any of its affiliated companies are conducting any business as of the date of termination of the employment relationship or have during the previous twelve months conducted any business: (i) engage in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (ii) render advice or services to, or otherwise assist, any other person, association, or entity who is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (iii) induce any employee of Employer or any of its affiliates to terminate his or her employment with Employer or its affiliates, or hire or assist in the hiring of any such employee by any person, association, or entity not affiliated with Employer. These non-competition obligations shall extend until the earlier of (a) expiration of the Term, or (b) one year after the termination of the employment relationship unless the termination is a Voluntary Termination as defined at Section 3.2 (ii). In the event of a Voluntary Termination, these non-competition obligations shall extend for a period of one (1) year after Employee's Voluntary Termination. 6.2 Employee understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his or her ability to engage in certain businesses anywhere in the world during the period provided for above, but acknowledges that Employee will receive sufficiently high remuneration and other benefits (e.g., the right to receive compensation under Section 3.5 for the remainder of the Term upon Involuntary Termination) under this Agreement to justify such restriction. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 6 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 6, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 6.3 It is expressly understood and agreed that Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Article 6 to be reasonable and necessary to protect the proprietary information of Employer. Nevertheless, if any of the aforesaid restrictions are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable, or overly broad as to geographic area or time, or otherwise unenforceable, the parties intend for the restrictions therein set forth to be modified by such courts so as to be reasonable and enforceable and, as so modified by the court, to be fully enforced. ARTICLE 7: MISCELLANEOUS: 7.1 For purposes of this Agreement the terms "affiliates" or "affiliated" means an entity who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Employer. 7.2 For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Employer, to: EOG Resources, Inc. 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration, & Corporate Secretary If to Employee, to the address shown on the first page hereof. Either Employer or Employee may furnish a change of address to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 7.3 This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflict-of-law rule or principle that might refer the construction of the Agreement to the laws of another State or country. 7.4 No failure by either party hereto at any time to give notice of any breach by the other party of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. 7.5 If a dispute arises out of or related to this Agreement, other than a dispute regarding Employee's obligations under Sections 5.2, Article 5, or Section 6.1, and if the dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, then Employer and Employee agree to first endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation, before having recourse to any other proceeding or forum. Thereafter, if either party to this Agreement brings legal action to enforce the terms of this Agree ment, the party who prevails in such legal action, whether plaintiff or defendant, in addition to the remedy or relief obtained in such legal action shall be entitled to recover its, his, or her expenses incurred in connection with such legal action, including, without limitation, costs of Court and attorneys fees. 7.6 It is a desire and intent of the parties that the terms, provisions, covenants, and remedies contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any such term, provision, covenant, or remedy of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances shall, to any extent, be construed to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, then such term, provision, covenant, or remedy shall be construed in a manner so as to permit its enforceability under the applicable law to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any case, the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances other than those to which they have been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect. 7.7 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Employer and any other person, association, or entity which may hereafter acquire or succeed to all or substantially all of the business or assets of Employer by any means whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Employee's rights and obligations under Agreement hereof are personal and such rights, benefits, and obligations of Employee shall not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated, or transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of Employer. 7.8 There exist other agreements between Employer and Employee relating to the employment relationship between them, e.g., agreements with respect to compensation and benefit plans. With the exception of the Change of Control Agreement referred to in Section 9.1, which shall remain in full force and effect, this Agreement replaces and merges previous agreements and discussions pertaining to the following subject matters covered herein: the nature of Employee's employment relationship with Employer and the term and termination of such relationship. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with regard to such subject matters, and contains all of the covenants, promises, representations, warranties, and agreements between the parties with respect such subject matters. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, inducement, promise, or agreement, oral or written, has been made by either party with respect to such subject matters, which is not embodied herein, and that no agreement, statement, or promise relating to the employment of Employee by Employer that is not contained in this Agreement shall be valid or binding. Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by each party whose rights hereunder are affected thereby, provided that any such modification must be authorized or approved by the Board of Directors of Employer. ARTICLE 8: UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT AND OTHER LAWS: 8.1 Employee shall at all times comply with United States laws applicable to Employee's actions on behalf of Employer, including specifically, without limitation, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, generally codified in 15 USC 78 ("FCPA"), as the FCPA may hereafter be amended, and/or its successor statutes. If Employee receives deferred adjudication for, pleads guilty to or nolo contendere or admits civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee has personal civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee committed an action resulting in Employer or any of its affiliates having civil or criminal liability or responsibility under the FCPA or other applicable United States law with knowledge of the activities giving rise to such liability or knowledge of facts from which Employee should have reasonably inferred the activities giving rise to liability had occurred or were likely to occur, such action or finding shall constitute "cause" for termination under this Agreement unless Employer's Board of Directors determines that the actions found to be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable United States law were taken in good faith and in compliance with all applicable policies of Employer. ARTICLE 9: CHANGE OF CONTROL: 9.1 Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the parties have executed a Change of Control Agreement dated June 15, 2005 (as amended from time to time, the "Change of Control Agreement"). If during the term of the Change of Control Agreement, a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) occurs or is deemed to have occurred under such agreement, then for the period of time from the occurrence of the Change of Control through the second anniversary of the Change of Control (the "Applicable Period"), the following provisions will apply: (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(i) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (i) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, an Event of Termination for Cause (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred; (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(iv) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (iv) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, Employee's Disability (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred. (c) If the termination of Employee's employment occurs for any reason during the Applicable Period, then (i) the provisions of Section 7 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Sections 3.3 through 3.7 of this Agreement, (ii) the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement shall not apply to Employee, and (iii) the provisions of Section 12 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Section 7.5 of this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employer and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on the date first stated above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 MARK G. PAPA /s/ MARK G. PAPA This 15th day of June, 2005 EXHIBIT "A" TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN EOG RESOURCES, INC. AND MARK G. PAPA Employee Name: Mark G. Papa Initial Term: June 15, 2005 through May 31, 2009 Renewal: After May 31, 2009, Agreement will automatically be renewed annually for a one- year term unless either Employee or Employer provides a 120-day prior written notice of intent not to renew. Position: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Location: Houston, Texas Minimum Annual Base Salary: Nine Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($940,000) per year Bonus: Employee shall be eligible to participate in the EOG Resources, Inc. Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, at a target of 100% of Annual Base Salary. Such bonus may be paid in a combination of cash, stock options, and/or phantom stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. Long-term Incentives: Employee shall be eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective May 4, 2004, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, consistent with similarly situated executives, as determined from time to time by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 MARK G. PAPA /s/ MARK G. PAPA This 15th day of June, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.2 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement"), including the attached Exhibit "A," is entered into between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, having offices at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002 ("Employer"), and Edmund P. Segner, III, an individual currently residing at 4130 Tennyson, Houston, Texas 77005 ("Employee"), to be effective as of June 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, Employer desires to continue to employ Employee pursuant to the terms and conditions and for the consideration set forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to continue in the employ of Employer pursuant to such terms and conditions and for such consideration. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained herein, Employer and Employee agree as follows: ARTICLE 1: EMPLOYMENT AND DUTIES: 1.1 Employer agrees to employ Employee, and Employee agrees to be employed by Employer, beginning as of the Effective Date and continuing until the last date of the Initial Term as set forth on Exhibit "A" or the last day of the one-year term for which the Term of this Agreement shall have been automatically renewed pursuant to the "Renewal" provision as set forth on Exhibit "A" (the "Term"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 1.2 Employee initially shall be employed in the position set forth on Exhibit A. Employer may subsequently assign Employee to a different position or modify Employee's duties and responsibilities, provided that such assignment or modification is consistent with that of an officer of Employer. Employee agrees to serve in the assigned position and to perform diligently and to the best of Employee's abilities the duties and services appertaining to such position as determined by Employer, as well as such additional or different duties and services appropriate to such position which Employee from time to time may be reasonably directed to perform by Employer. Employee shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time. 1.3 Employee shall, during the period of Employee's employment by Employer, devote Employee's full business time, energy, and best efforts to the business and affairs of Employer. Employee may not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business, investment, or activity that interferes with Employee's performance of Employee's duties hereunder, is contrary to the interests of Employer, or requires any significant portion of Employee's business time. 1.4 In connection with Employee's employment by Employer, Employer shall endeavor to provide Employee access to such confidential information pertaining to the business and services of Employer as is appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. Employer also shall endeavor to provide to Employee the opportunity to develop business relationships with those of Employer's clients and potential clients that are appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. 1.5 Employee acknowledges and agrees that, at all times during the employment relationship Employee owes fiduciary duties to Employer, including but not limited to the fiduciary duties of the highest loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer, to make full disclosure to Employer of all information that pertains to Employer's business and interests, to do no act which would injure Employer's business, its interests, or its reputation, and to refrain from using for Employee's own benefit or for the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that are entrusted to Employee or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon termination of the employment relationship, Employee shall continue to refrain from using for his own benefit or the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that were entrusted to Employee during the employment relationship or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee agrees that while employed by Employer and thereafter he shall not knowingly take any action which interferes with the internal relationships between Employer and its employees or representatives or interferes with the external relationships between Employer and third parties. 1.6 It is agreed that any direct or indirect interest in, connection with, or benefit from any outside activities, particularly commercial activities, which interest might in any way adversely affect Employer or any of its affiliates, involves a possible conflict of interest. In keeping with Employee's fiduciary duties to Employer, Employee agrees that during the employment relationship Employee shall not knowingly become involved in a conflict of interest with Employer or its affiliates, or upon discovery thereof, allow such a conflict to continue. Moreover, Employee agrees that Employee shall disclose to Employer's Chairman any facts which might involve such a conflict of interest that has not been approved by Employer's Chairman. Employer and Employee recognize that it is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of actions or interests which constitute a "conflict of interest." Moreover, Employer and Employee recognize there are many borderline situations. In some instances, full disclosure of facts by the Employee to Employer's Chairman may be all that is necessary to enable Employer or its affiliates to protect its interests. In others, if no improper motivation appears to exist and the interests of Employer or its affiliates have not suffered, prompt elimination of the outside interest will suffice. In still others, it may be necessary for Employer to terminate the employment relationship. Employer and Employee agree that Employer's determination as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be conclusive. Employer reserves the right to take such action as, in its judgment, will end the conflict. ARTICLE 2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS: 2.1 Employee's Annual Base Salary during the Term shall be not less than the amount set forth under the heading "Minimum Annual Base Salary" on Exhibit A, subject to increase at the sole discretion of the Employer, which shall be paid in accordance with Employer's standard payroll practice. Any calculation to be made under this Agreement with respect to Employee's Annual Base Salary shall be made using the then current Annual Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the event for which such calculation is made. 2.2 While employed by Employer (both during the Term and thereafter), Employee shall be allowed to participate, on the same basis generally as other employees of Employer, in all general employee benefit plans and programs, including improvements or modifications of the same, which on the effective date or thereafter are made available by Employer to all or substantially all of Employer's employees. Such benefit plans and programs may include, without limitation, medical coverage, dental coverage, life insurance, disability protection, and pension plans. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed or interpreted to provide greater rights, participation, coverage, or benefits under such benefit plans or programs than provided to similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of such benefit plans and programs. 2.3 Employer shall not by reason of this Article 2 be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing, any such incentive compensation or employee benefit program or plan, so long as such actions are similarly applicable to covered employees generally. Moreover, unless specifically provided for in a written plan document adopted by the Board of Directors of Employer, none of the benefits or arrangements described in this Article 2 shall be secured or funded in any way, and each shall instead constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future exclusively from the general assets of Employer. 2.4 Employer may withhold from any compensation, benefits, or amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling. ARTICLE 3: TERMINATION PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF TERM AND EFFECTS OF SUCH TERMINATION: 3.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employer shall have the right to terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of the Term for any of the following reasons: (i) For "cause" upon the determination by the Employer's Board of Directors or management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) that "cause" exists for the termination of the employment relationship. As used in this Section 3.1(i), the term "cause" shall mean [a] Employee's gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the duties and services required of Employee pursuant to this Agreement; [b] Employee's final conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude; [c] Employee's willful refusal without proper legal reason to perform the duties and responsibilities required of Employee under this Agreement which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [d] Employee's involvement in a conflict of interest as referenced in Section 1.6 for which Employer makes a determination to terminate the employment of Employee which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [e] Employee's willful engagement in conduct that Employee knows or should know is materially injurious to Employer; [f] Employee's material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or corporate code or policy which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; or [g] Employee's violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable United States law as proscribed by Section 5.1. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that the decision as to whether "cause" exists for termination of the employment relationship by Employer is delegated to Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) for determination. If Employee disagrees with the decision reached by Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management), the dispute will be limited to whether Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) reached its decision in good faith; (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, with or without cause, in the sole discretion of the management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) of Employer; (iii) upon Employee's death; or (iv) upon Employee's becoming disabled so as to entitle Employee to benefits under Employer's long-term disability plan or, if Employee is not eligible to participate in such plan, then Employee is permanently and totally unable to perform Employee's duties for Employer as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment as supported by a written medical opinion to the foregoing effect by a physician selected by Employer. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Termination for Cause" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.4. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iii) as a result of Employee's death is specified in Section 3.6. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iv) as a result of the Employee becoming incapacitated is specified in Section 3.7. 3.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employee shall have the right to terminate the employment relationship under this Agreement at any time prior to the expira tion of the Term of employment for any of the following reasons: (i) a material breach by Employer of any material provision of this Agreement which remains uncorrected for 30 days following written notice of such breach by Employee to Employer; or (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, in the sole discretion of Employee. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Voluntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.3. 3.3 Upon a Voluntary Termination of the employment relationship by Employee prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.4 Upon a Termination for Cause prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.5 Upon an Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee prior to the expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled, in consideration of Employee's continuing obligations hereunder after such termination (including, without limitation, Employee's non-competition obligations), to receive a severance benefit under this Agreement equal to (a) the greater of (i) the amount that Employee would have received under this Agreement from the date of termination through the end of the Term of this Agreement if Employee had continued to be employed during such period, computed assuming that Employee received his Annual Base Salary and an annual bonus equal to the bonus target specified on Exhibit A for each year during such period (in each case prorated for any partial year) or (ii) two times the sum of the Employee's Annual Base Salary and the annual bonus target specified on Exhibit A; plus (b) the value of unvested stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under Employer's 1992 Stock Plan, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, based on the difference between the average closing price of Employer's stock on the ten (10) trading days prior to, but not including, the date of termination and the grant price. Employee shall not be under any duty or obligation to seek or accept other employment following Involuntary Termination and the amounts due Employee hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if Employee accepts subsequent employment. Employee's rights under this Section 3.5 are Employee's sole and exclusive rights against Employer and Employer's sole and exclusive liability to Employee under this Agreement, in contract, tort, or otherwise, for any Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship. Employee covenants not to sue or lodge any claim, demand or cause of action against Employer for any sums for Involuntary Termination other than those sums specified in this Section 3.5. If Employee breaches this covenant, Employer shall be entitled to recover from Employee all sums expended by Employer (including costs and attorneys fees) in connection with such suit, claim, demand or cause of action. 3.6 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's death, Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall be entitled to Employee's pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.7 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's incapacity, Employee shall be entitled to his or her pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.8 In all cases, the compensation and benefits payable to Employee under this Agreement upon termination of the employment relationship shall be offset against any amounts to which Employee may otherwise be entitled under any and all severance plans, and policies of Employer or its affiliates. 3.9 Termination of the employment relationship does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Employee's obligations under Articles 6 and 7. 3.10 Upon termination of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to receive compensation and benefits earned and accrued by Employee during his/her employment as are specifically provided in any applicable employee compensation and/or benefit plan document and any grant or award agreement thereunder. 3.11 The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. ARTICLE 4: CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT BEYOND TERM; TERMINATION AND EFFECTS OF TERMINATION: 4.1 After the expiration of the Term specified on Exhibit "A," this Agreement, and Employee's employment hereunder, shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year each, unless either Employer or Employee provides not less than one hundred twenty (120) days' prior written notice of intent not to renew. In the event this Agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice, and Employee remains employed by Employer beyond the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, including any renewals, Employee's employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. Upon such termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. ARTICLE 5: UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT AND OTHER LAWS: 5.1 Employee shall at all times comply with United States laws applicable to Employee's actions on behalf of Employer, including specifically, without limitation, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, generally codified in 15 USC 78 ("FCPA"), as the FCPA may hereafter be amended, and/or its successor statutes. If Employee pleads guilty to or nolo contendere or admits civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee has personal civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee committed an action resulting in any Employer entity having civil or criminal liability or responsibility under the FCPA or other applicable United States law with knowledge of the activities giving rise to such liability or knowledge of facts from which Employee should have reasonably inferred the activities giving rise to liability had occurred or were likely to occur, such action or finding shall constitute "cause" for termination under this Agreement unless Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) determines that the actions found to be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable United States law were taken in good faith and in compliance with all applicable policies of Employer. ARTICLE 6: OWNERSHIP AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS: 6.1 All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, whether patentable or not, which are conceived, made, developed or acquired by Employee, individually or in conjunction with others, during Employee's employment by Employer (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise) which relate to Employer's business, products or services (including, without limitation, all such information relating to corporate opportunities, research, financial and sales data, pricing and trading terms, evaluations, opinions, interpretations, acquisition prospects, the identity of customers or their requirements, the identity of key contacts within the customer's organizations or within the organization of acquisition prospects, or marketing and merchandising techniques, prospective names, and marks) shall be disclosed to Employer and are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. Moreover, all drawings, memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps and all other writings or materials of any type embodying any of such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. 6.2 Employee acknowledges that the business of Employer and its affiliates is highly competitive and that their strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, their technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning their customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which Employer or its affiliates use in their business to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Employee further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to Employer and its affiliates in maintaining their competitive position. Employee hereby agrees that Employee will not, at any time during or after his or her employment by Employer, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his or her employment responsibilities hereunder. As a result of Employee's employment by Employer, Employee may also from time to time have access to, or knowledge of, confidential business information or trade secrets of third parties, such as customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, and the like, of Employer and its affiliates. Employee also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of such third party confidential information and trade secrets to the same extent, and on the same basis, as Employer's confidential business information and trade secrets. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 6 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 6, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 6.3 All written materials, records, and other documents made by, or coming into the possession of, Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer which contain or disclose confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates shall be and remain the property of Employer or its affiliates, as the case may be. Upon termination of Employee's employment by Employer, for any reason, Employee promptly shall deliver the same, and all copies thereof, to Employer. 6.4 If, during Employee's employment by Employer, Employee creates any original work of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression which is the subject matter of copyright (such as videotapes, written presentations on acquisitions, computer programs, drawings, maps, architectural renditions, models, manuals, brochures, or the like) relating to Employer's business, products, or services, whether such work is created solely by Employee or jointly with others (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise), Employee shall disclose such work to Employer. Employer shall be deemed the author of such work if the work is prepared by Employee in the scope of his or her employment; or, if the work is not prepared by Employee within the scope of his or her employment but is specially ordered by Employer as a contribution to a collective work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, as a translation, as a supplementary work, as a compilation, or as an instructional text, then the work shall be considered to be work made for hire and Employer shall be the author of the work. If such work is neither prepared by the Employee within the scope of his or her employment nor a work specially ordered and is deemed to be a work made for hire, then Employee hereby agrees to assign, and by these presents does assign, to Employer all of Employee's world wide right, title, and interest in and to such work and all rights of copyright therein. 6.5 Both during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and thereafter, Employee shall assist Employer and its nominee, at any time, in the protection of Employer's worldwide right, title, and interest in and to information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, and its copyrighted works, including without limitation, the execution of all formal assignment documents requested by Employer or its nominee and the execution of all lawful oaths and applications for applications for patents and registration of copyright in the United States and foreign countries. ARTICLE 7: POST-EMPLOYMENT NON-COMPETITION OBLIGATIONS: 7.1 As part of the consideration for the compensation and benefits to be paid to Employee hereunder, in keeping with Employee's duties as a fiduciary and in order to protect Employer's interests in the confidential information of Employer and the business relationships developed by Employee with the clients and potential clients of Employer, and as an additional incentive for Employer to enter into this Agreement, Employer and Employee agree to the non-competition provisions of this Article 7. Employee agrees that during the period of Employee's non- competition obligations hereunder, Employee will not, directly or indirectly for Employee or for others, in any geographic area or market where Employer is conducting any business as of the date of termination of the employment relationship or has during the previous twelve months conducted any business: (i) engage in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (ii) render advice or services to, or otherwise assist, any other person, association, or entity who is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (iii) induce any employee of Employer to terminate his or her employment with Employer, or hire or assist in the hiring of any such employee by any person, association, or entity not affiliated with Employer. These non-competition obligations shall extend until the earlier of (a) expiration of the Term or (b) one year after termination of the employment relationship. Further, if Employer ceases to be publicly traded, Employee may exercise his right to voluntarily resign under Section 3.2(ii). If Employee exercises such right, these non-competition obligations shall expire immediately and have no further force and effect, and the Employer shall have no further obligations to Employee under this Agreement. 7.2 Employee understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his or her ability to engage in certain businesses anywhere in the world during the period provided for above, but acknowledges that Employee will receive sufficiently high remuneration and other benefits (e.g., the right to receive compensation under Section 3.5 for the remainder of the Term upon Involuntary Termination) under this Agreement to justify such restriction. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 7 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 7, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 7.3 It is expressly understood and agreed that Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Article 7 to be reasonable and necessary to protect the proprietary information of Employer. Nevertheless, if any of the aforesaid restrictions are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable, or overly broad as to geographic area or time, or otherwise unenforceable, the parties intend for the restrictions therein set forth to be modified by such courts so as to be reasonable and enforceable and, as so modified by the court, to be fully enforced. ARTICLE 8: MISCELLANEOUS: 8.1 For purposes of this Agreement the terms "affiliates" or "affiliated" means an entity who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Employer. 8.2 Employee shall refrain, both during the employment relationship and after the employment relationship terminates, from publishing any oral or written statements about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents or representatives that are slanderous, libelous, or defamatory; or that disclose private or confidential information about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' business affairs, officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that constitute an intrusion into the seclusion or private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about the private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that place Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives in a false light before the public; or that constitute a misappropriation of the name or likeness of Employer, any it its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives. A violation or threatened violation of this prohibition may be enjoined by the courts. 8.3 For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Employer, to: EOG Resources, Inc. 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration, & Corporate Secretary If to Employee, to the address shown on the first page hereof. Either Employer or Employee may furnish a change of address to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 8.4 This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflict-of-law rule or principle that might refer the construction of the Agreement to the laws of another State or country. 8.5 No failure by either party hereto at any time to give notice of any breach by the other party of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. 8.6 If a dispute arises out of or related to this Agreement, other than a dispute regarding Employee's obligations under Article 6, or Article 7, and if the dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, then Employer and Employee agree to first endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation, before having recourse to any other pro ceeding or forum. 8.7 Each of Employer and Employee is a citizen of the State of Texas. Employer's principal place of business is in Houston, Harris County, Texas. Employee resides in Harris County, Texas. This Agreement was negotiated and signed in Houston, Texas. This Agreement shall be performed in Houston, Texas. Any litigation that may be brought by either Employer or Employee involving the enforcement of this Agreement or the rights, duties, or obligations of this Agreement, shall be brought exclusively in the State or federal courts sitting in Houston, Harris County, Texas. In the event that service of process cannot be effected upon a party, each party hereby irrevocably appoints the Secretary of State for the State of Texas as its or his agent for service of process to receive the summons and other pleadings in connection with any such litigation. 8.8 It is a desire and intent of the parties that the terms, provisions, covenants, and remedies contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any such term, provision, covenant, or remedy of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances shall, to any extent, be construed to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, then such term, provision, covenant, or remedy shall be construed in a manner so as to permit its enforceability under the applicable law to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any case, the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances other than those to which they have been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect. 8.9 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Employer and any other person, association, or entity which may hereafter acquire or succeed to all or substantially all of the business or assets of Employer by any means whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Employee's rights and obligations under Agreement hereof are personal and such rights, benefits, and obligations of Employee shall not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated, or transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of Employer. 8.10 There exist other agreements between Employer and Employee relating to the employment relationship between them, e.g., agreements with respect to compensation and benefit plans. With the exception of the Change of Control Agreement referred to in Section 9.1, which shall remain in full force and effect, this Agreement replaces and merges previous agreements and discussions pertaining to the following subject matters covered herein: the nature of Employee's employment relationship with Employer and the term and termination of such relationship. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with regard to such subject matters, and contains all of the covenants, promises, representations, warranties, and agreements between the parties with respect such subject matters. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, inducement, promise, or agreement, oral or written, has been made by either party with respect to such subject matters, which is not embodied herein, and that no agreement, statement, or promise relating to the employment of Employee by Employer that is not contained in this Agreement shall be valid or binding. Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by each party whose rights hereunder are affected thereby, provided that any such modification must be authorized or approved by the Board of Directors of Employer. ARTICLE 9: CHANGE OF CONTROL: 9.1 Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the parties have executed a Change of Control Agreement dated June 15, 2005 (as amended from time to time, the "Change of Control Agreement"). If during the term of the Change of Control Agreement, a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) occurs or is deemed to have occurred under such agreement, then for the period of time from the occurrence of the Change of Control through the second anniversary of the Change of Control (the "Applicable Period"), the following provisions will apply: (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(i) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (i) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, an Event of Termination for Cause (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred; (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(iv) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (iv) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, Employee's Disability (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred. (c) If the termination of Employee's employment occurs for any reason during the Applicable Period, then (i) the provisions of Section 7 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Sections 3.3 through 3.7 of this Agreement, (ii) the provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement shall not apply to Employee, and (iii) the provisions of Section 12 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Section 8.6 of this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employer and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on the date first stated above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 EDMUND P. SEGNER, III /s/ EDMUND P. SEGNER, III This 15th day of June, 2005 EXHIBIT "A" TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN EOG RESOURCES, INC. AND EDMUND P. SEGNER, III Employee Name: Edmund P. Segner, III Initial Term: June 15, 2005 through May 31, 2009 Renewal: After May 31, 2009, Agreement will automatically be renewed annually for a one- year term unless either Employee or Employer provides a 120-day prior written notice of intent not to renew. Position: President and Chief of Staff Location: Houston, Texas Reporting Relationship: Reports to Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Minimum Annual Base Salary: Four Hundred Eighty-five Thousand Dollars ($485,000) per year Bonus: Employee shall be eligible to participate in the EOG Resources, Inc. Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, at a target of 100% of Annual Base Salary. Such bonus may be paid in a combination of cash, stock options, and/or phantom stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. Long-term Incentives: Employee shall be eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective May 4, 2004, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, consistent with similarly situated executives, as determined from time to time by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 EDMUND P. SEGNER, III /s/ EDMUND P. SEGNER III This 15th day of June, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.3 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement"), including the attached Exhibit "A," is entered into between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, having offices at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002 ("Employer"), and Loren M. Leiker, an individual currently residing at 5730 Tanglecircle, Houston, Texas 77057 ("Employee"), to be effective as of June 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, Employer desires to continue to employ Employee pursuant to the terms and conditions and for the consideration set forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to continue in the employ of Employer pursuant to such terms and conditions and for such consideration. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained herein, Employer and Employee agree as follows: ARTICLE 1: EMPLOYMENT AND DUTIES: 1.1 Employer agrees to employ Employee, and Employee agrees to be employed by Employer, beginning as of the Effective Date and continuing until the last date of the Initial Term as set forth on Exhibit "A" or the last day of the one-year term for which the Term of this Agreement shall have been automatically renewed pursuant to the "Renewal" provision as set forth on Exhibit "A" (the "Term"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 1.2 Employee initially shall be employed in the position set forth on Exhibit A. Employer may subsequently assign Employee to a different position or modify Employee's duties and responsibilities, provided that such assignment or modification is consistent with that of an officer of Employer. Employee agrees to serve in the assigned position and to perform diligently and to the best of Employee's abilities the duties and services appertaining to such position as determined by Employer, as well as such additional or different duties and services appropriate to such position which Employee from time to time may be reasonably directed to perform by Employer. Employee shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time. 1.3 Employee shall, during the period of Employee's employment by Employer, devote Employee's full business time, energy, and best efforts to the business and affairs of Employer. Employee may not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business, investment, or activity that interferes with Employee's performance of Employee's duties hereunder, is contrary to the interests of Employer, or requires any significant portion of Employee's business time. 1.4 In connection with Employee's employment by Employer, Employer shall endeavor to provide Employee access to such confidential information pertaining to the business and services of Employer as is appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. Employer also shall endeavor to provide to Employee the opportunity to develop business relationships with those of Employer's clients and potential clients that are appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. 1.5 Employee acknowledges and agrees that, at all times during the employment relationship Employee owes fiduciary duties to Employer, including but not limited to the fiduciary duties of the highest loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer, to make full disclosure to Employer of all information that pertains to Employer's business and interests, to do no act which would injure Employer's business, its interests, or its reputation, and to refrain from using for Employee's own benefit or for the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that are entrusted to Employee or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon termination of the employment relationship, Employee shall continue to refrain from using for his own benefit or the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that were entrusted to Employee during the employment relationship or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee agrees that while employed by Employer and thereafter he shall not knowingly take any action which interferes with the internal relationships between Employer and its employees or representatives or interferes with the external relationships between Employer and third parties. 1.6 It is agreed that any direct or indirect interest in, connection with, or benefit from any outside activities, particularly commercial activities, which interest might in any way adversely affect Employer or any of its affiliates, involves a possible conflict of interest. In keeping with Employee's fiduciary duties to Employer, Employee agrees that during the employment relationship Employee shall not knowingly become involved in a conflict of interest with Employer or its affiliates, or upon discovery thereof, allow such a conflict to continue. Moreover, Employee agrees that Employee shall disclose to Employer's Chairman any facts which might involve such a conflict of interest that has not been approved by Employer's Chairman. Employer and Employee recognize that it is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of actions or interests which constitute a "conflict of interest." Moreover, Employer and Employee recognize there are many borderline situations. In some instances, full disclosure of facts by the Employee to Employer's Chairman may be all that is necessary to enable Employer or its affiliates to protect its interests. In others, if no improper motivation appears to exist and the interests of Employer or its affiliates have not suffered, prompt elimination of the outside interest will suffice. In still others, it may be necessary for Employer to terminate the employment relationship. Employer and Employee agree that Employer's determination as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be conclusive. Employer reserves the right to take such action as, in its judgment, will end the conflict. ARTICLE 2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS: 2.1 Employee's Annual Base Salary during the Term shall be not less than the amount set forth under the heading "Minimum Annual Base Salary" on Exhibit A, subject to increase at the sole discretion of the Employer, which shall be paid in accordance with Employer's standard payroll practice. Any calculation to be made under this Agreement with respect to Employee's Annual Base Salary shall be made using the then current Annual Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the event for which such calculation is made. 2.2 While employed by Employer (both during the Term and thereafter), Employee shall be allowed to participate, on the same basis generally as other employees of Employer, in all general employee benefit plans and programs, including improvements or modifications of the same, which on the effective date or thereafter are made available by Employer to all or substantially all of Employer's employees. Such benefit plans and programs may include, without limitation, medical coverage, dental coverage, life insurance, disability protection, and pension plans. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed or interpreted to provide greater rights, participation, coverage, or benefits under such benefit plans or programs than provided to similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of such benefit plans and programs. 2.3 Employer shall not by reason of this Article 2 be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing, any such incentive compensation or employee benefit program or plan, so long as such actions are similarly applicable to covered employees generally. Moreover, unless specifically provided for in a written plan document adopted by the Board of Directors of Employer, none of the benefits or arrangements described in this Article 2 shall be secured or funded in any way, and each shall instead constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future exclusively from the general assets of Employer. 2.4 Employer may withhold from any compensation, benefits, or amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling. ARTICLE 3: TERMINATION PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF TERM AND EFFECTS OF SUCH TERMINATION: 3.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employer shall have the right to terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of the Term for any of the following reasons: (i) For "cause" upon the determination by the Employer's Board of Directors or management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) that "cause" exists for the termination of the employment relationship. As used in this Section 3.1(i), the term "cause" shall mean [a] Employee's gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the duties and services required of Employee pursuant to this Agreement; [b] Employee's final conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude; [c] Employee's willful refusal without proper legal reason to perform the duties and responsibilities required of Employee under this Agreement which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [d] Employee's involvement in a conflict of interest as referenced in Section 1.6 for which Employer makes a determination to terminate the employment of Employee which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [e] Employee's willful engagement in conduct that Employee knows or should know is materially injurious to Employer; [f] Employee's material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or corporate code or policy which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; or [g] Employee's violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable United States law as proscribed by Section 5.1. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that the decision as to whether "cause" exists for termination of the employment relationship by Employer is delegated to Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) for determination. If Employee disagrees with the decision reached by Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management), the dispute will be limited to whether Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) reached its decision in good faith; (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, with or without cause, in the sole discretion of the management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) of Employer; (iii) upon Employee's death; or (iv) upon Employee's becoming disabled so as to entitle Employee to benefits under Employer's long-term disability plan or, if Employee is not eligible to participate in such plan, then Employee is permanently and totally unable to perform Employee's duties for Employer as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment as supported by a written medical opinion to the foregoing effect by a physician selected by Employer. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Termination for Cause" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.4. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iii) as a result of Employee's death is specified in Section 3.6. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iv) as a result of the Employee becoming incapacitated is specified in Section 3.7. 3.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employee shall have the right to terminate the employment relationship under this Agreement at any time prior to the expira tion of the Term of employment for any of the following reasons: (i) a material breach by Employer of any material provision of this Agreement which remains uncorrected for 30 days following written notice of such breach by Employee to Employer; or (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, in the sole discretion of Employee. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Voluntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.3. 3.3 Upon a Voluntary Termination of the employment relationship by Employee prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.4 Upon a Termination for Cause prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.5 Upon an Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee prior to the expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled, in consideration of Employee's continuing obligations hereunder after such termination (including, without limitation, Employee's non-competition obligations), to receive a severance benefit under this Agreement equal to the greater of a) the amount that Employee would have received under this Agreement from the date of termination through the end of the Term of this Agreement if Employee had continued to be employed during such period, computed assuming that Employee received his Annual Base Salary and an annual bonus equal to the bonus target specified on Exhibit A for each year during such period (in each case prorated for any partial year), or b) the sum of the Employee's Annual Base Salary and the annual bonus target specified on Exhibit A. Employee shall not be under any duty or obligation to seek or accept other employment following Involuntary Termination and the amounts due Employee hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if Employee accepts subsequent employment. Employee's rights under this Section 3.5 are Employee's sole and exclusive rights against Employer and Employer's sole and exclusive liability to Employee under this Agreement, in contract, tort, or otherwise, for any Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship. Employee covenants not to sue or lodge any claim, demand or cause of action against Employer for any sums for Involuntary Termination other than those sums specified in this Section 3.5. If Employee breaches this covenant, Employer shall be entitled to recover from Employee all sums expended by Employer (including costs and attorneys fees) in connection with such suit, claim, demand or cause of action. 3.6 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's death, Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall be entitled to Employee's pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.7 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's incapacity, Employee shall be entitled to his or her pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.8 In all cases, the compensation and benefits payable to Employee under this Agreement upon termination of the employment relationship shall be offset against any amounts to which Employee may otherwise be entitled under any and all severance plans, and policies of Employer or its affiliates. 3.9 Termination of the employment relationship does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Employee's obligations under Articles 6 and 7. 3.10 Upon termination of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to receive compensation and benefits earned and accrued by Employee during his/her employment as are specifically provided in any applicable employee compensation and/or benefit plan document and any grant or award agreement thereunder. 3.11 The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. ARTICLE 4: CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT BEYOND TERM; TERMINATION AND EFFECTS OF TERMINATION: 4.1 After the expiration of the Term specified on Exhibit "A," this Agreement, and Employee's employment hereunder, shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year each, unless either Employer or Employee provides not less than one hundred twenty (120) days' prior written notice of intent not to renew. In the event this Agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice, and Employee remains employed by Employer beyond the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, including any renewals, Employee's employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. Upon such termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. ARTICLE 5: UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT AND OTHER LAWS: 5.1 Employee shall at all times comply with United States laws applicable to Employee's actions on behalf of Employer, including specifically, without limitation, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, generally codified in 15 USC 78 ("FCPA"), as the FCPA may hereafter be amended, and/or its successor statutes. If Employee pleads guilty to or nolo contendere or admits civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee has personal civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee committed an action resulting in any Employer entity having civil or criminal liability or responsibility under the FCPA or other applicable United States law with knowledge of the activities giving rise to such liability or knowledge of facts from which Employee should have reasonably inferred the activities giving rise to liability had occurred or were likely to occur, such action or finding shall constitute "cause" for termination under this Agreement unless Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) determines that the actions found to be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable United States law were taken in good faith and in compliance with all applicable policies of Employer. ARTICLE 6: OWNERSHIP AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS: 6.1 All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, whether patentable or not, which are conceived, made, developed or acquired by Employee, individually or in conjunction with others, during Employee's employment by Employer (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise) which relate to Employer's business, products or services (including, without limitation, all such information relating to corporate opportunities, research, financial and sales data, pricing and trading terms, evaluations, opinions, interpretations, acquisition prospects, the identity of customers or their requirements, the identity of key contacts within the customer's organizations or within the organization of acquisition prospects, or marketing and merchandising techniques, prospective names, and marks) shall be disclosed to Employer and are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. Moreover, all drawings, memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps and all other writings or materials of any type embodying any of such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. 6.2 Employee acknowledges that the business of Employer and its affiliates is highly competitive and that their strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, their technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning their customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which Employer or its affiliates use in their business to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Employee further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to Employer and its affiliates in maintaining their competitive position. Employee hereby agrees that Employee will not, at any time during or after his or her employment by Employer, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his or her employment responsibilities hereunder. As a result of Employee's employment by Employer, Employee may also from time to time have access to, or knowledge of, confidential business information or trade secrets of third parties, such as customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, and the like, of Employer and its affiliates. Employee also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of such third party confidential information and trade secrets to the same extent, and on the same basis, as Employer's confidential business information and trade secrets. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 6 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 6, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 6.3 All written materials, records, and other documents made by, or coming into the possession of, Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer which contain or disclose confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates shall be and remain the property of Employer or its affiliates, as the case may be. Upon termination of Employee's employment by Employer, for any reason, Employee promptly shall deliver the same, and all copies thereof, to Employer. 6.4 If, during Employee's employment by Employer, Employee creates any original work of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression which is the subject matter of copyright (such as videotapes, written presentations on acquisitions, computer programs, drawings, maps, architectural renditions, models, manuals, brochures, or the like) relating to Employer's business, products, or services, whether such work is created solely by Employee or jointly with others (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise), Employee shall disclose such work to Employer. Employer shall be deemed the author of such work if the work is prepared by Employee in the scope of his or her employment; or, if the work is not prepared by Employee within the scope of his or her employment but is specially ordered by Employer as a contribution to a collective work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, as a translation, as a supplementary work, as a compilation, or as an instructional text, then the work shall be considered to be work made for hire and Employer shall be the author of the work. If such work is neither prepared by the Employee within the scope of his or her employment nor a work specially ordered and is deemed to be a work made for hire, then Employee hereby agrees to assign, and by these presents does assign, to Employer all of Employee's world wide right, title, and interest in and to such work and all rights of copyright therein. 6.5 Both during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and thereafter, Employee shall assist Employer and its nominee, at any time, in the protection of Employer's worldwide right, title, and interest in and to information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, and its copyrighted works, including without limitation, the execution of all formal assignment documents requested by Employer or its nominee and the execution of all lawful oaths and applications for applications for patents and registration of copyright in the United States and foreign countries. 6.6 Information covered by this Article 6 does not include information (1) known to Employee prior to or independent of Employee's employment by Employer; (2) generally available to the public; or (3) made available to Employee without breaching the provisions of this Article 6. ARTICLE 7: POST-EMPLOYMENT NON-COMPETITION OBLIGATIONS: 7.1 As part of the consideration for the compensation and benefits to be paid to Employee hereunder, in keeping with Employee's duties as a fiduciary and in order to protect Employer's interests in the confidential information of Employer and the business relationships developed by Employee with the clients and potential clients of Employer, and as an additional incentive for Employer to enter into this Agreement, Employer and Employee agree to the non-competition provisions of this Article 7. Employee agrees that during the period of Employee's non- competition obligations hereunder, Employee will not, directly or indirectly for Employee or for others, in any specific prospect where Employer is conducting any exploration business as of the date of termination of the employment relationship or has during the previous twelve months conducted any exploration business: (i) engage in any exploration business competitive with the exploration business conducted by Employer; (ii) render advice or services to, or otherwise assist, any other person, association, or entity who is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any exploration business competitive with the exploration business conducted by Employer; (iii) induce any employee of Employer to terminate his or her employment with Employer, or hire or assist in the hiring of any such employee by any person, association, or entity not affiliated with Employer. These non-competition obligations shall extend until the earlier of (a) expiration of the Term or (b) one year after termination of the employment relationship. Further, Employee may exercise his right to voluntarily resign under Section 3.2(ii) upon the occurrence of one of the events described below and these non- competition obligations shall expire immediately and have no further force and effect, and the Employer shall have no further obligations to Employee under this Agreement: 1. the Employer undergoes a reorganization or change in business circumstances such that Employee's duties and responsibilities are substantially reduced; or 2. the Employee is asked to relocate outside the Houston Metropolitan Area; or 3. Mark G. Papa ceases to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Employer. 7.2 Employee understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his or her ability to engage in certain businesses anywhere in the world during the period provided for above, but acknowledges that Employee will receive sufficiently high remuneration and other benefits (e.g., the right to receive compensation under Section 3.5 for the remainder of the Term upon Involuntary Termination) under this Agreement to justify such restriction. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 7 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 7, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 7.3 It is expressly understood and agreed that Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Article 7 to be reasonable and necessary to protect the proprietary information of Employer. Nevertheless, if any of the aforesaid restrictions are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable, or overly broad as to geographic area or time, or otherwise unenforceable, the parties intend for the restrictions therein set forth to be modified by such courts so as to be reasonable and enforceable and, as so modified by the court, to be fully enforced. ARTICLE 8: MISCELLANEOUS: 8.1 For purposes of this Agreement the terms "affiliates" or "affiliated" means an entity who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Employer. 8.2 Employee shall refrain, both during the employment relationship and after the employment relationship terminates, from publishing any oral or written statements about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents or representatives that are slanderous, libelous, or defamatory; or that disclose private or confidential information about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' business affairs, officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that constitute an intrusion into the seclusion or private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about the private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that place Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives in a false light before the public; or that constitute a misappropriation of the name or likeness of Employer, any it its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives. A violation or threatened violation of this prohibition may be enjoined by the courts. 8.3 For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Employer, to: EOG Resources, Inc. 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration, & Corporate Secretary If to Employee, to the address shown on the first page hereof. Either Employer or Employee may furnish a change of address to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 8.4 This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflict-of-law rule or principle that might refer the construction of the Agreement to the laws of another State or country. 8.5 No failure by either party hereto at any time to give notice of any breach by the other party of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. 8.6 If a dispute arises out of or related to this Agreement, other than a dispute regarding Employee's obligations under Article 6, or Article 7, and if the dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, then Employer and Employee agree to first endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation, before having recourse to any other pro ceeding or forum. 8.7 Each of Employer and Employee is a citizen of the State of Texas. Employer's principal place of business is in Houston, Harris County, Texas. Employee resides in Harris County, Texas. This Agreement was negotiated and signed in Houston, Texas. This Agreement shall be performed in Houston, Texas. Any litigation that may be brought by either Employer or Employee involving the enforcement of this Agreement or the rights, duties, or obligations of this Agreement, shall be brought exclusively in the State or federal courts sitting in Houston, Harris County, Texas. In the event that service of process cannot be effected upon a party, each party hereby irrevocably appoints the Secretary of State for the State of Texas as its or his agent for service of process to receive the summons and other pleadings in connection with any such litigation. 8.8 It is a desire and intent of the parties that the terms, provisions, covenants, and remedies contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any such term, provision, covenant, or remedy of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances shall, to any extent, be construed to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, then such term, provision, covenant, or remedy shall be construed in a manner so as to permit its enforceability under the applicable law to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any case, the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances other than those to which they have been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect. 8.9 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Employer and any other person, association, or entity which may hereafter acquire or succeed to all or substantially all of the business or assets of Employer by any means whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Employee's rights and obligations under Agreement hereof are personal and such rights, benefits, and obligations of Employee shall not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated, or transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of Employer. 8.10 There exist other agreements between Employer and Employee relating to the employment relationship between them, e.g., agreements with respect to compensation and benefit plans. With the exception of the Change of Control Agreement referred to in Section 9.1, which shall remain in full force and effect, this Agreement replaces and merges previous agreements and discussions pertaining to the following subject matters covered herein: the nature of Employee's employment relationship with Employer and the term and termination of such relationship. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with regard to such subject matters, and contains all of the covenants, promises, representations, warranties, and agreements between the parties with respect such subject matters. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, inducement, promise, or agreement, oral or written, has been made by either party with respect to such subject matters, which is not embodied herein, and that no agreement, statement, or promise relating to the employment of Employee by Employer that is not contained in this Agreement shall be valid or binding. Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by each party whose rights hereunder are affected thereby, provided that any such modification must be authorized or approved by the Board of Directors of Employer. ARTICLE 9: CHANGE OF CONTROL: 9.1 Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the parties have executed a Change of Control Agreement dated June 15, 2005 (as amended from time to time, the "Change of Control Agreement"). If during the term of the Change of Control Agreement, a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) occurs or is deemed to have occurred under such agreement, then for the period of time from the occurrence of the Change of Control through the second anniversary of the Change of Control (the "Applicable Period"), the following provisions will apply: (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(i) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (i) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, an Event of Termination for Cause (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred; (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(iv) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (iv) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, Employee's Disability (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred. (c) If the termination of Employee's employment occurs for any reason during the Applicable Period, then (i) the provisions of Section 7 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Sections 3.3 through 3.7 of this Agreement, (ii) the provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement shall not apply to Employee, and (iii) the provisions of Section 12 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Section 8.6 of this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employer and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on the date first stated above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 LOREN M. LEIKER /s/ LOREN M. LEIKER This 15th day of June, 2005 EXHIBIT "A" TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN EOG RESOURCES, INC. AND LOREN M. LEIKER Employee Name: Loren M. Leiker Initial Term: June 15, 2005 through May 31, 2009 Renewal: After May 31, 2009, Agreement will automatically be renewed annually for a one- year term unless either Employee or Employer provides a 120-day prior written notice of intent not to renew. Position: Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development Location: Houston, Texas Reporting Relationship: Reports to Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Minimum Annual Base Salary: Four Hundred Forty-five Thousand Dollars ($445,000) per year Bonus: Employee shall be eligible to participate in the EOG Resources, Inc. Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, at a target of 90% of Annual Base Salary. Such bonus may be paid in a combination of cash, stock options, and/or phantom stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. Long-term Incentives: Employee shall be eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective May 4, 2004, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, consistent with similarly situated executives, as determined from time to time by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 LOREN M. LEIKER /s/ LOREN M. LEIKER This 15th day of June, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.4 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement"), including the attached Exhibit "A," is entered into between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, having offices at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002 ("Employer"), and Gary L. Thomas, an individual currently residing at 31 West Broad Oaks Drive #1, Houston, Texas 77056 ("Employee"), to be effective as of June 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, Employer desires to continue to employ Employee pursuant to the terms and conditions and for the consideration set forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to continue in the employ of Employer pursuant to such terms and conditions and for such consideration. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained herein, Employer and Employee agree as follows: ARTICLE 1: EMPLOYMENT AND DUTIES: 1.1 Employer agrees to employ Employee, and Employee agrees to be employed by Employer, beginning as of the Effective Date and continuing until the last date of the Initial Term as set forth on Exhibit "A" or the last day of the one-year term for which the Term of this Agreement shall have been automatically renewed pursuant to the "Renewal" provision as set forth on Exhibit "A" (the "Term"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 1.2 Employee initially shall be employed in the position set forth on Exhibit A. Employer may subsequently assign Employee to a different position or modify Employee's duties and responsibilities, provided that such assignment or modification is consistent with that of an officer of Employer. Employee agrees to serve in the assigned position and to perform diligently and to the best of Employee's abilities the duties and services appertaining to such position as determined by Employer, as well as such additional or different duties and services appropriate to such position which Employee from time to time may be reasonably directed to perform by Employer. Employee shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time. 1.3 Employee shall, during the period of Employee's employment by Employer, devote Employee's full business time, energy, and best efforts to the business and affairs of Employer. Employee may not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business, investment, or activity that interferes with Employee's performance of Employee's duties hereunder, is contrary to the interests of Employer, or requires any significant portion of Employee's business time. 1.4 In connection with Employee's employment by Employer, Employer shall endeavor to provide Employee access to such confidential information pertaining to the business and services of Employer as is appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. Employer also shall endeavor to provide to Employee the opportunity to develop business relationships with those of Employer's clients and potential clients that are appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. 1.5 Employee acknowledges and agrees that, at all times during the employment relationship Employee owes fiduciary duties to Employer, including but not limited to the fiduciary duties of the highest loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer, to make full disclosure to Employer of all information that pertains to Employer's business and interests, to do no act which would injure Employer's business, its interests, or its reputation, and to refrain from using for Employee's own benefit or for the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that are entrusted to Employee or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon termination of the employment relationship, Employee shall continue to refrain from using for his own benefit or the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that were entrusted to Employee during the employment relationship or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee agrees that while employed by Employer and thereafter he shall not knowingly take any action which interferes with the internal relationships between Employer and its employees or representatives or interferes with the external relationships between Employer and third parties. 1.6 It is agreed that any direct or indirect interest in, connection with, or benefit from any outside activities, particularly commercial activities, which interest might in any way adversely affect Employer or any of its affiliates, involves a possible conflict of interest. In keeping with Employee's fiduciary duties to Employer, Employee agrees that during the employment relationship Employee shall not knowingly become involved in a conflict of interest with Employer or its affiliates, or upon discovery thereof, allow such a conflict to continue. Moreover, Employee agrees that Employee shall disclose to Employer's Chairman any facts which might involve such a conflict of interest that has not been approved by Employer's Chairman. Employer and Employee recognize that it is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of actions or interests which constitute a "conflict of interest." Moreover, Employer and Employee recognize there are many borderline situations. In some instances, full disclosure of facts by the Employee to Employer's Chairman may be all that is necessary to enable Employer or its affiliates to protect its interests. In others, if no improper motivation appears to exist and the interests of Employer or its affiliates have not suffered, prompt elimination of the outside interest will suffice. In still others, it may be necessary for Employer to terminate the employment relationship. Employer and Employee agree that Employer's determination as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be conclusive. Employer reserves the right to take such action as, in its judgment, will end the conflict. ARTICLE 2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS: 2.1 Employee's Annual Base Salary during the Term shall be not less than the amount set forth under the heading "Minimum Annual Base Salary" on Exhibit A, subject to increase at the sole discretion of the Employer, which shall be paid in accordance with Employer's standard payroll practice. Any calculation to be made under this Agreement with respect to Employee's Annual Base Salary shall be made using the then current Annual Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the event for which such calculation is made. 2.2 While employed by Employer (both during the Term and thereafter), Employee shall be allowed to participate, on the same basis generally as other employees of Employer, in all general employee benefit plans and programs, including improvements or modifications of the same, which on the effective date or thereafter are made available by Employer to all or substantially all of Employer's employees. Such benefit plans and programs may include, without limitation, medical coverage, dental coverage, life insurance, disability protection, and pension plans. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed or interpreted to provide greater rights, participation, coverage, or benefits under such benefit plans or programs than provided to similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of such benefit plans and programs. 2.3 Employer shall not by reason of this Article 2 be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing, any such incentive compensation or employee benefit program or plan, so long as such actions are similarly applicable to covered employees generally. Moreover, unless specifically provided for in a written plan document adopted by the Board of Directors of Employer, none of the benefits or arrangements described in this Article 2 shall be secured or funded in any way, and each shall instead constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future exclusively from the general assets of Employer. 2.4 Employer may withhold from any compensation, benefits, or amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling. ARTICLE 3: TERMINATION PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF TERM AND EFFECTS OF SUCH TERMINATION: 3.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employer shall have the right to terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of the Term for any of the following reasons: (i) For "cause" upon the determination by the Employer's Board of Directors or management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) that "cause" exists for the termination of the employment relationship. As used in this Section 3.1(i), the term "cause" shall mean [a] Employee's gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the duties and services required of Employee pursuant to this Agreement; [b] Employee's final conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude; [c] Employee's willful refusal without proper legal reason to perform the duties and responsibilities required of Employee under this Agreement which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [d] Employee's involvement in a conflict of interest as referenced in Section 1.6 for which Employer makes a determination to terminate the employment of Employee which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [e] Employee's willful engagement in conduct that Employee knows or should know is materially injurious to Employer; [f] Employee's material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or corporate code or policy which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; or [g] Employee's violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable United States law as proscribed by Section 5.1. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that the decision as to whether "cause" exists for termination of the employment relationship by Employer is delegated to Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) for determination. If Employee disagrees with the decision reached by Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management), the dispute will be limited to whether Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) reached its decision in good faith; (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, with or without cause, in the sole discretion of the management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) of Employer; (iii) upon Employee's death; or (iv) upon Employee's becoming disabled so as to entitle Employee to benefits under Employer's long-term disability plan or, if Employee is not eligible to participate in such plan, then Employee is permanently and totally unable to perform Employee's duties for Employer as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment as supported by a written medical opinion to the foregoing effect by a physician selected by Employer. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Termination for Cause" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.4. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iii) as a result of Employee's death is specified in Section 3.6. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iv) as a result of the Employee becoming incapacitated is specified in Section 3.7. 3.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employee shall have the right to terminate the employment relationship under this Agreement at any time prior to the expira tion of the Term of employment for any of the following reasons: (i) a material breach by Employer of any material provision of this Agreement which remains uncorrected for 30 days following written notice of such breach by Employee to Employer; or (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, in the sole discretion of Employee. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Voluntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.3. 3.3 Upon a Voluntary Termination of the employment relationship by Employee prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.4 Upon a Termination for Cause prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.5 Upon an Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee prior to the expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled, in consideration of Employee's continuing obligations hereunder after such termination (including, without limitation, Employee's non-competition obligations), to receive a severance benefit under this Agreement equal to the greater of a) the amount that Employee would have received under this Agreement from the date of termination through the end of the Term of this Agreement if Employee had continued to be employed during such period, computed assuming that Employee received his Annual Base Salary and an annual bonus equal to the bonus target specified on Exhibit A for each year during such period (in each case prorated for any partial year), or b) the sum of the Employee's Annual Base Salary and the annual bonus target specified on Exhibit A. Employee shall not be under any duty or obligation to seek or accept other employment following Involuntary Termination and the amounts due Employee hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if Employee accepts subsequent employment. Employee's rights under this Section 3.5 are Employee's sole and exclusive rights against Employer and Employer's sole and exclusive liability to Employee under this Agreement, in contract, tort, or otherwise, for any Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship. Employee covenants not to sue or lodge any claim, demand or cause of action against Employer for any sums for Involuntary Termination other than those sums specified in this Section 3.5. If Employee breaches this covenant, Employer shall be entitled to recover from Employee all sums expended by Employer (including costs and attorneys fees) in connection with such suit, claim, demand or cause of action. 3.6 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's death, Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall be entitled to Employee's pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.7 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's incapacity, Employee shall be entitled to his or her pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.8 In all cases, the compensation and benefits payable to Employee under this Agreement upon termination of the employment relationship shall be offset against any amounts to which Employee may otherwise be entitled under any and all severance plans, and policies of Employer or its affiliates. 3.9 Termination of the employment relationship does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Employee's obligations under Articles 6 and 7. 3.10 Upon termination of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to receive compensation and benefits earned and accrued by Employee during his/her employment as are specifically provided in any applicable employee compensation and/or benefit plan document and any grant or award agreement thereunder. 3.11 The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. ARTICLE 4: CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT BEYOND TERM; TERMINATION AND EFFECTS OF TERMINATION: 4.1 After the expiration of the Term specified on Exhibit "A," this Agreement, and Employee's employment hereunder, shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year each, unless either Employer or Employee provides not less than one hundred twenty (120) days' prior written notice of intent not to renew. In the event this Agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice, and Employee remains employed by Employer beyond the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, including any renewals, Employee's employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. Upon such termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. ARTICLE 5: UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT AND OTHER LAWS: 5.1 Employee shall at all times comply with United States laws applicable to Employee's actions on behalf of Employer, including specifically, without limitation, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, generally codified in 15 USC 78 ("FCPA"), as the FCPA may hereafter be amended, and/or its successor statutes. If Employee pleads guilty to or nolo contendere or admits civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee has personal civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee committed an action resulting in any Employer entity having civil or criminal liability or responsibility under the FCPA or other applicable United States law with knowledge of the activities giving rise to such liability or knowledge of facts from which Employee should have reasonably inferred the activities giving rise to liability had occurred or were likely to occur, such action or finding shall constitute "cause" for termination under this Agreement unless Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) determines that the actions found to be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable United States law were taken in good faith and in compliance with all applicable policies of Employer. ARTICLE 6: OWNERSHIP AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS: 6.1 All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, whether patentable or not, which are conceived, made, developed or acquired by Employee, individually or in conjunction with others, during Employee's employment by Employer (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise) which relate to Employer's business, products or services (including, without limitation, all such information relating to corporate opportunities, research, financial and sales data, pricing and trading terms, evaluations, opinions, interpretations, acquisition prospects, the identity of customers or their requirements, the identity of key contacts within the customer's organizations or within the organization of acquisition prospects, or marketing and merchandising techniques, prospective names, and marks) shall be disclosed to Employer and are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. Moreover, all drawings, memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps and all other writings or materials of any type embodying any of such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. 6.2 Employee acknowledges that the business of Employer and its affiliates is highly competitive and that their strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, their technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning their customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which Employer or its affiliates use in their business to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Employee further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to Employer and its affiliates in maintaining their competitive position. Employee hereby agrees that Employee will not, at any time during or after his or her employment by Employer, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his or her employment responsibilities hereunder. As a result of Employee's employment by Employer, Employee may also from time to time have access to, or knowledge of, confidential business information or trade secrets of third parties, such as customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, and the like, of Employer and its affiliates. Employee also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of such third party confidential information and trade secrets to the same extent, and on the same basis, as Employer's confidential business information and trade secrets. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 6 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 6, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 6.3 All written materials, records, and other documents made by, or coming into the possession of, Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer which contain or disclose confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates shall be and remain the property of Employer or its affiliates, as the case may be. Upon termination of Employee's employment by Employer, for any reason, Employee promptly shall deliver the same, and all copies thereof, to Employer. 6.4 If, during Employee's employment by Employer, Employee creates any original work of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression which is the subject matter of copyright (such as videotapes, written presentations on acquisitions, computer programs, drawings, maps, architectural renditions, models, manuals, brochures, or the like) relating to Employer's business, products, or services, whether such work is created solely by Employee or jointly with others (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise), Employee shall disclose such work to Employer. Employer shall be deemed the author of such work if the work is prepared by Employee in the scope of his or her employment; or, if the work is not prepared by Employee within the scope of his or her employment but is specially ordered by Employer as a contribution to a collective work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, as a translation, as a supplementary work, as a compilation, or as an instructional text, then the work shall be considered to be work made for hire and Employer shall be the author of the work. If such work is neither prepared by the Employee within the scope of his or her employment nor a work specially ordered and is deemed to be a work made for hire, then Employee hereby agrees to assign, and by these presents does assign, to Employer all of Employee's world wide right, title, and interest in and to such work and all rights of copyright therein. 6.5 Both during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and thereafter, Employee shall assist Employer and its nominee, at any time, in the protection of Employer's worldwide right, title, and interest in and to information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, and its copyrighted works, including without limitation, the execution of all formal assignment documents requested by Employer or its nominee and the execution of all lawful oaths and applications for applications for patents and registration of copyright in the United States and foreign countries. ARTICLE 7: POST-EMPLOYMENT NON-COMPETITION OBLIGATIONS: 7.1 As part of the consideration for the compensation and benefits to be paid to Employee hereunder, in keeping with Employee's duties as a fiduciary and in order to protect Employer's interests in the confidential information of Employer and the business relationships developed by Employee with the clients and potential clients of Employer, and as an additional incentive for Employer to enter into this Agreement, Employer and Employee agree to the non-competition provisions of this Article 7. Employee agrees that during the period of Employee's non- competition obligations hereunder, Employee will not, directly or indirectly for Employee or for others, in any geographic area or market where Employer is conducting any business as of the date of termination of the employment relationship or has during the previous twelve months conducted any business: (i) engage in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (ii) render advice or services to, or otherwise assist, any other person, association, or entity who is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (iii) induce any employee of Employer to terminate his or her employment with Employer, or hire or assist in the hiring of any such employee by any person, association, or entity not affiliated with Employer. These non-competition obligations shall extend until the earlier of (a) expiration of the Term or (b) one year after termination of the employment relationship. Further, if Mark G. Papa ceases to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Employer, Employee may exercise his right to voluntarily resign under Section 3.2(ii) and these non-competition obligations shall expire immediately and have no further force and effect, and the Employer shall have no further obligations to Employee under this Agreement. 7.2 Employee understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his or her ability to engage in certain businesses anywhere in the world during the period provided for above, but acknowledges that Employee will receive sufficiently high remuneration and other benefits (e.g., the right to receive compensation under Section 3.5 for the remainder of the Term upon Involuntary Termination) under this Agreement to justify such restriction. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 7 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 7, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 7.3 It is expressly understood and agreed that Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Article 7 to be reasonable and necessary to protect the proprietary information of Employer. Nevertheless, if any of the aforesaid restrictions are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable, or overly broad as to geographic area or time, or otherwise unenforceable, the parties intend for the restrictions therein set forth to be modified by such courts so as to be reasonable and enforceable and, as so modified by the court, to be fully enforced. ARTICLE 8: MISCELLANEOUS: 8.1 For purposes of this Agreement the terms "affiliates" or "affiliated" means an entity who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Employer. 8.2 Employee shall refrain, both during the employment relationship and after the employment relationship terminates, from publishing any oral or written statements about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents or representatives that are slanderous, libelous, or defamatory; or that disclose private or confidential information about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' business affairs, officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that constitute an intrusion into the seclusion or private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about the private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that place Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives in a false light before the public; or that constitute a misappropriation of the name or likeness of Employer, any it its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives. A violation or threatened violation of this prohibition may be enjoined by the courts. 8.3 For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Employer, to: EOG Resources, Inc. 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration, & Corporate Secretary If to Employee, to the address shown on the first page hereof. Either Employer or Employee may furnish a change of address to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 8.4 This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflict-of-law rule or principle that might refer the construction of the Agreement to the laws of another State or country. 8.5 No failure by either party hereto at any time to give notice of any breach by the other party of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. 8.6 If a dispute arises out of or related to this Agreement, other than a dispute regarding Employee's obligations under Article 6, or Article 7, and if the dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, then Employer and Employee agree to first endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation, before having recourse to any other pro ceeding or forum. 8.7 Each of Employer and Employee is a citizen of the State of Texas. Employer's principal place of business is in Houston, Harris County, Texas. Employee resides in Harris County, Texas. This Agreement was negotiated and signed in Houston, Texas. This Agreement shall be performed in Houston, Texas. Any litigation that may be brought by either Employer or Employee involving the enforcement of this Agreement or the rights, duties, or obligations of this Agreement, shall be brought exclusively in the State or federal courts sitting in Houston, Harris County, Texas. In the event that service of process cannot be effected upon a party, each party hereby irrevocably appoints the Secretary of State for the State of Texas as its or his agent for service of process to receive the summons and other pleadings in connection with any such litigation. 8.8 It is a desire and intent of the parties that the terms, provisions, covenants, and remedies contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any such term, provision, covenant, or remedy of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances shall, to any extent, be construed to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, then such term, provision, covenant, or remedy shall be construed in a manner so as to permit its enforceability under the applicable law to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any case, the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances other than those to which they have been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect. 8.9 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Employer and any other person, association, or entity which may hereafter acquire or succeed to all or substantially all of the business or assets of Employer by any means whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Employee's rights and obligations under Agreement hereof are personal and such rights, benefits, and obligations of Employee shall not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated, or transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of Employer. 8.10 There exist other agreements between Employer and Employee relating to the employment relationship between them, e.g., agreements with respect to compensation and benefit plans. With the exception of the Change of Control Agreement referred to in Section 9.1, which shall remain in full force and effect, this Agreement replaces and merges previous agreements and discussions pertaining to the following subject matters covered herein: the nature of Employee's employment relationship with Employer and the term and termination of such relationship. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with regard to such subject matters, and contains all of the covenants, promises, representations, warranties, and agreements between the parties with respect such subject matters. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, inducement, promise, or agreement, oral or written, has been made by either party with respect to such subject matters, which is not embodied herein, and that no agreement, statement, or promise relating to the employment of Employee by Employer that is not contained in this Agreement shall be valid or binding. Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by each party whose rights hereunder are affected thereby, provided that any such modification must be authorized or approved by the Board of Directors of Employer. ARTICLE 9: CHANGE OF CONTROL: 9.1 Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the parties have executed a Change of Control Agreement dated June 15, 2005 (as amended from time to time, the "Change of Control Agreement). If during the term of the Change of Control Agreement, a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) occurs or is deemed to have occurred under such agreement, then for the period of time from the occurrence of the Change of Control through the second anniversary of the Change of Control (the "Applicable Period"), the following provisions will apply: (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(i) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (i) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, an Event of Termination for Cause (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred; (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(iv) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (iv) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, Employee's Disability (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred. (c) If the termination of Employee's employment occurs for any reason during the Applicable Period, then (i) the provisions of Section 7 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Sections 3.3 through 3.7 of this Agreement, (ii) the provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement shall not apply to Employee, and (iii) the provisions of Section 12 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Section 8.6 of this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employer and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on the date first stated above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 GARY L. THOMAS /s/ GARY L. THOMAS This 15th day of June, 2005 EXHIBIT "A" TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN EOG RESOURCES, INC. AND GARY L. THOMAS Employee Name: Gary L. Thomas Initial Term: June 15, 2005 through May 31, 2009 Renewal: After May 31, 2009, Agreement will automatically be renewed annually for a one- year term unless either Employee or Employer provides a 120-day prior written notice of intent not to renew. Position: Executive Vice President, Operations Location: Houston, Texas Reporting Relationship: Reports to Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Minimum Annual Base Salary: Four Hundred Forty-five Thousand Dollars ($445,000) per year Bonus: Employee shall be eligible to participate in the EOG Resources, Inc. Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, at a target of 90% of Annual Base Salary. Such bonus may be paid in a combination of cash, stock options, and/or phantom stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. Long-term Incentives: Employee shall be eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective May 4, 2004, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, consistent with similarly situated executives, as determined from time to time by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 GARY L. THOMAS /s/ GARY L. THOMAS This 15th day of June, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.5 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Employment Agreement ("Agreement"), including the attached Exhibit "A," is entered into between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, having offices at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002 ("Employer"), and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., an individual currently residing at 3730 Wickersham, Houston, Texas 77027 ("Employee"), to be effective as of June 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, Employer desires to continue to employ Employee pursuant to the terms and conditions and for the consideration set forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to continue in the employ of Employer pursuant to such terms and conditions and for such consideration. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained herein, Employer and Employee agree as follows: ARTICLE 1: EMPLOYMENT AND DUTIES: 1.1 Employer agrees to employ Employee, and Employee agrees to be employed by Employer, beginning as of the Effective Date and continuing until the last date of the Initial Term as set forth on Exhibit "A" or the last day of the one-year term for which the Term of this Agreement shall have been automatically renewed pursuant to the "Renewal" provision as set forth on Exhibit "A" (the "Term"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 1.2 Employee shall be employed in the position set forth on Exhibit A in the Company's headquarters location. Employee agrees to serve in the assigned position and to perform diligently and to the best of Employee's abilities the duties and services appertaining to such position as determined by Employer, as well as such additional or different duties and services appropriate to such position which Employee from time to time may be reasonably directed to perform by Employer. Employee shall at all times comply with and be subject to such policies and procedures as Employer may establish from time to time. 1.3 Employee shall, during the period of Employee's employment by Employer, devote Employee's full business time, energy, and best efforts to the business and affairs of Employer. Employee may not engage, directly or indirectly, in any other business, investment, or activity that interferes with Employee's performance of Employee's duties hereunder, is known to Employee to be contrary to the interests of Employer, or requires any significant portion of Employee's business time. 1.4 In connection with Employee's employment by Employer, Employer shall endeavor to provide Employee access to such confidential information pertaining to the business and services of Employer as is appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. Employer also shall endeavor to provide to Employee the opportunity to develop business relationships with those of Employer's clients and potential clients that are appropriate for Employee's employment responsibilities. 1.5 Employee acknowledges and agrees that, at all times during the employment relationship Employee owes fiduciary duties to Employer, including but not limited to the fiduciary duties of the highest loyalty, fidelity and allegiance to act at all times in the best interests of the Employer, to make full disclosure to Employer of all information that pertains to Employer's business and interests, to do no act which Employee knows or should know would injure Employer's business, its interests, or its reputation, and to refrain from using for Employee's own benefit or for the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that are entrusted to Employee or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon termination of the employment relationship, Employee shall continue to refrain from using for his own benefit or the benefit of others any information or opportunities pertaining to Employer's business or interests that were entrusted to Employee during the employment relationship or that he learned while employed by Employer. Employee agrees that while employed by Employer and thereafter he shall not knowingly take any action which interferes with the internal relationships between Employer and its employees or representatives or interferes with the external relationships between Employer and third parties. 1.6 It is agreed that any direct or indirect interest in, connection with, or benefit from any outside activities, particularly commercial activities, which interest might in any way adversely affect Employer or any of its affiliates, involves a possible conflict of interest. In keeping with Employee's fiduciary duties to Employer, Employee agrees that during the employment relationship Employee shall not knowingly become involved in a conflict of interest with Employer or its affiliates, or upon discovery thereof, allow such a conflict to continue. Moreover, Employee agrees that Employee shall disclose to Employer's Chairman any facts which might involve such a conflict of interest that has not been approved by Employer's Chairman. Employer and Employee recognize that it is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of actions or interests which constitute a "conflict of interest." Moreover, Employer and Employee recognize there are many borderline situations. In some instances, full disclosure of facts by the Employee to Employer's Chairman may be all that is necessary to enable Employer or its affiliates to protect its interests. In others, if no improper motivation appears to exist and the interests of Employer or its affiliates have not suffered, prompt elimination of the outside interest will suffice. In still others, it may be necessary for Employer to terminate the employment relationship. Employer and Employee agree that Employer's determination as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be conclusive. Employer reserves the right to take such action as, in its judgment, will end the conflict. ARTICLE 2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS: 2.1 Employee's Annual Base Salary during the Term shall be not less than the amount set forth under the heading "Minimum Annual Base Salary" on Exhibit A, subject to increase at the sole discretion of the Employer, but consistent with increases provided to other similarly situated executives of Employer, which shall be paid in accordance with Employer's standard payroll practice. Any calculation to be made under this Agreement with respect to Employee's Annual Base Salary shall be made using the then current Annual Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the event for which such calculation is made. 2.2 While employed by Employer (both during the Term and thereafter), Employee shall be allowed to participate, on the same basis generally as other employees of Employer, in all general employee benefit plans and programs, including improvements or modifications of the same, which on the effective date or thereafter are made available by Employer to all or substantially all of Employer's employees. Such benefit plans and programs may include, without limitation, medical coverage, dental coverage, life insurance, disability protection, and pension plans. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed or interpreted to provide greater rights, participation, coverage, or benefits under such benefit plans or programs than provided to similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms and conditions of such benefit plans and programs. 2.3 Employer shall not by reason of this Article 2 be obligated to institute, maintain, or refrain from changing, amending, or discontinuing, any such incentive compensation or employee benefit program or plan, so long as such actions are similarly applicable to covered employees generally. Moreover, unless specifically provided for in a written plan document adopted by the Board of Directors of Employer, none of the benefits or arrangements described in this Article 2 shall be secured or funded in any way, and each shall instead constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future exclusively from the general assets of Employer. 2.4 Employer may withhold from any compensation, benefits, or amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling. ARTICLE 3: TERMINATION PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF TERM AND EFFECTS OF SUCH TERMINATION: 3.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employer shall have the right to terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of the Term for any of the following reasons: (i) For "cause" upon the determination by the Employer's Board of Directors or management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) that "cause" exists for the termination of the employment relationship. As used in this Section 3.1(i), the term "cause" shall mean [a] Employee's willful misconduct in the performance of the duties and services required of Employee pursuant to this Agreement; [b] Employee's final conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude; [c] Employee's willful refusal without proper legal reason to perform the duties and responsibilities required of Employee under this Agreement which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [d] Employee's involvement in a conflict of interest as referenced in Section 1.6 for which Employer makes a determination to terminate the employment of Employee which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; [e] Employee's willful engagement in conduct that Employee knows or should know is materially injurious to Employer; [f] Employee's material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or corporate code or policy which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to Employee by Employer of such breach; or [g] Employee's violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable United States law as proscribed by Section 5.1. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that the decision as to whether "cause" exists for termination of the employment relationship by Employer is delegated to Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) for determination. If Employee disagrees with the decision reached by Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management), the dispute will be limited to whether Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) reached its decision in good faith; (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, with or without cause, in the sole discretion of the management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) of Employer; (iii) upon Employee's death; or (iv) upon Employee's becoming disabled so as to entitle Employee to benefits under Employer's long-term disability plan or, if Employee is not eligible to participate in such plan, then Employee is permanently and totally unable to perform Employee's duties for Employer as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment as supported by a written medical opinion to the foregoing effect by a physician selected by Employer. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Termination for Cause" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.4. The termination of Employee's employment by Employer prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.1(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iii) as a result of Employee's death is specified in Section 3.6. The effect of the employment relationship being terminated pursuant to Section 3.1(iv) as a result of the Employee becoming incapacitated is specified in Section 3.7. 3.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, Employee shall have the right to terminate the employment relationship under this Agreement at any time prior to the expira tion of the Term of employment for any of the following reasons: (i) a material breach by Employer of any material provision of this Agreement which remains uncorrected for 30 days following written notice of such breach by Employee to Employer; or (ii) for any other reason whatsoever, in the sole discretion of Employee. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute an "Involuntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(i); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.5. The termination of Employee's employment by Employee prior to the expiration of the Term shall constitute a "Voluntary Termination" if made pursuant to Section 3.2(ii); the effect of such termination is specified in Section 3.3. 3.3 Upon a Voluntary Termination of the employment relationship by Employee prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.4 Upon a Termination for Cause prior to expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. 3.5 Upon an Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee prior to the expiration of the Term, Employee shall be entitled, in consideration of Employee's continuing obligations hereunder after such termination (including, without limitation, Employee's non-competition obligations), to receive a severance benefit under this Agreement equal to the greater of a) the amount that Employee would have received under this Agreement from the date of termination through the end of the Term of this Agreement if Employee had continued to be employed during such period, computed assuming that Employee received his Annual Base Salary and an annual bonus equal to the bonus target specified on Exhibit A for each year during such period (in each case prorated for any partial year), or b) the sum of the Employee's Annual Base Salary and the annual bonus target specified on Exhibit A. Further, in the event of Involuntary Termination, if Employee's eligibility for COBRA coverage expires, Employer shall provide to Employee the cost difference between COBRA coverage and a personal medical/dental policy paid by Employee for the six (6) months following the COBRA coverage or until Employee's gainful employment, whichever comes first. Employee shall not be under any duty or obligation to seek or accept other employment following Involuntary Termination and the amounts due Employee hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if Employee accepts subsequent employment. Employee's rights under this Section 3.5 are Employee's sole and exclusive rights against Employer and Employer's sole and exclusive liability to Employee under this Agreement, in contract, tort, or otherwise, for any Involuntary Termination of the employment relationship. Employee covenants not to sue or lodge any claim, demand or cause of action against Employer for any sums for Involuntary Termination other than those sums specified in this Section 3.5. If Employee breaches this covenant, Employer shall be entitled to recover from Employee all sums expended by Employer (including costs and attorneys fees) in connection with such suit, claim, demand or cause of action. 3.6 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's death, Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall be entitled to Employee's pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee's heirs, administrators, or legatees shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.7 Upon termination of the employment relationship as a result of Employee's incapacity, Employee shall be entitled to his or her pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid to Employee at the date of such termination. 3.8 In all cases, the compensation and benefits payable to Employee under this Agreement upon termination of the employment relationship shall be offset against any amounts to which Employee may otherwise be entitled under any and all severance plans, and policies of Employer or its affiliates. 3.9 Termination of the employment relationship does not terminate those obligations imposed by this Agreement which are continuing obligations, including, without limitation, Employee's obligations under Articles 6 and 7. 3.10 Upon termination of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to receive compensation and benefits earned and accrued by Employee during his/her employment as are specifically provided in any applicable employee compensation and/or benefit plan document and any grant or award agreement thereunder. 3.11 The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. ARTICLE 4: CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT BEYOND TERM; TERMINATION AND EFFECTS OF TERMINATION: 4.1 After the expiration of the Term specified on Exhibit "A," this Agreement, and Employee's employment hereunder, shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year each, unless either Employer or Employee provides not less than one hundred twenty (120) days' prior written notice of intent not to renew. In the event this Agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice, and Employee remains employed by Employer beyond the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, including any renewals, Employee's employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. Upon such termination of the employment relationship by either Employer or Employee for any reason whatsoever, all future compensation to which Employee is entitled and all future benefits for which Employee is eligible shall cease and terminate. Employee shall be entitled to pro rata salary through the date of such termination, but Employee shall not be entitled to any individual bonuses or individual incentive compensation not yet paid at the date of such termination. ARTICLE 5: UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT AND OTHER LAWS: 5.1 Employee shall at all times comply with United States laws applicable to Employee's actions on behalf of Employer, including specifically, without limitation, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, generally codified in 15 USC 78 ("FCPA"), as the FCPA may hereafter be amended, and/or its successor statutes. If Employee pleads guilty to or nolo contendere or admits civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee has personal civil or criminal liability under the FCPA or other applicable United States law, or if a court finds that Employee committed an action resulting in any Employer entity having civil or criminal liability or responsibility under the FCPA or other applicable United States law with knowledge of the activities giving rise to such liability or knowledge of facts from which Employee should have reasonably inferred the activities giving rise to liability had occurred or were likely to occur, such action or finding shall constitute "cause" for termination under this Agreement unless Employer's management committee (or, if there is no management committee, the highest applicable level of Employer's management) determines that the actions found to be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable United States law were taken in good faith and in compliance with all applicable policies of Employer. ARTICLE 6: OWNERSHIP AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS: 6.1 All information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, whether patentable or not, which are conceived, made, developed or acquired by Employee, individually or in conjunction with others, during Employee's employment by Employer (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise) which relate to Employer's business, products or services (including, without limitation, all such information relating to corporate opportunities, research, financial and sales data, pricing and trading terms, evaluations, opinions, interpretations, acquisition prospects, the identity of customers or their requirements, the identity of key contacts within the customer's organizations or within the organization of acquisition prospects, or marketing and merchandising techniques, prospective names, and marks) shall be disclosed to Employer and are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. Moreover, all drawings, memoranda, notes, records, files, correspondence, drawings, manuals, models, specifications, computer programs, maps and all other writings or materials of any type embodying any of such information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of Employer. 6.2 Employee acknowledges that the business of Employer and its affiliates is highly competitive and that their strategies, methods, books, records, and documents, their technical information concerning their products, equipment, services, and processes, procurement procedures and pricing techniques, the names of and other information (such as credit and financial data) concerning their customers and business affiliates, all comprise confidential business information and trade secrets which are valuable, special, and unique assets which Employer or its affiliates use in their business to obtain a competitive advantage over their competitors. Employee further acknowledges that protection of such confidential business information and trade secrets against unauthorized disclosure and use is of critical importance to Employer and its affiliates in maintaining their competitive position. Employee hereby agrees that Employee will not, at any time during or after his or her employment by Employer, make any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates, or make any use thereof, except in the carrying out of his or her employment responsibilities hereunder. As a result of Employee's employment by Employer, Employee may also from time to time have access to, or knowledge of, confidential business information or trade secrets of third parties, such as customers, suppliers, partners, joint venturers, and the like, of Employer and its affiliates. Employee also agrees to preserve and protect the confidentiality of such third party confidential information and trade secrets to the same extent, and on the same basis, as Employer's confidential business information and trade secrets. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 6 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 6, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 6.3 All written materials, records, and other documents made by, or coming into the possession of, Employee during the period of Employee's employment by Employer which contain or disclose confidential business information or trade secrets of Employer or its affiliates shall be and remain the property of Employer or its affiliates, as the case may be. Upon termination of Employee's employment by Employer, for any reason, Employee promptly shall deliver the same, and all copies thereof, to Employer. 6.4 If, during Employee's employment by Employer, Employee creates any original work of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression which is the subject matter of copyright (such as videotapes, written presentations on acquisitions, computer programs, drawings, maps, architectural renditions, models, manuals, brochures, or the like) relating to Employer's business, products, or services, whether such work is created solely by Employee or jointly with others (whether during business hours or otherwise and whether on Employer's premises or otherwise), Employee shall disclose such work to Employer. Employer shall be deemed the author of such work if the work is prepared by Employee in the scope of his or her employment; or, if the work is not prepared by Employee within the scope of his or her employment but is specially ordered by Employer as a contribution to a collective work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, as a translation, as a supplementary work, as a compilation, or as an instructional text, then the work shall be considered to be work made for hire and Employer shall be the author of the work. If such work is neither prepared by the Employee within the scope of his or her employment nor a work specially ordered and is deemed to be a work made for hire, then Employee hereby agrees to assign, and by these presents does assign, to Employer all of Employee's world wide right, title, and interest in and to such work and all rights of copyright therein. 6.5 Both during the period of Employee's employment by Employer and thereafter, Employee shall assist Employer and its nominee, at any time, in the protection of Employer's worldwide right, title, and interest in and to information, ideas, concepts, improvements, discoveries, and inventions, and its copyrighted works, including without limitation, the execution of all formal assignment documents requested by Employer or its nominee and the execution of all lawful oaths and applications for applications for patents and registration of copyright in the United States and foreign countries. ARTICLE 7: POST-EMPLOYMENT NON-COMPETITION OBLIGATIONS: 7.1 As part of the consideration for the compensation and benefits to be paid to Employee hereunder, in keeping with Employee's duties as a fiduciary and in order to protect Employer's interests in the confidential information of Employer and the business relationships developed by Employee with the clients and potential clients of Employer, and as an additional incentive for Employer to enter into this Agreement, Employer and Employee agree to the non-competition provisions of this Article 7. Employee agrees that during the period of Employee's non- competition obligations hereunder, Employee will not, directly or indirectly for Employee or for others, in any geographic area or market where Employer is conducting any business as of the date of termination of the employment relationship or has during the previous twelve months conducted any business: (i) engage in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (ii) render advice or services to, or otherwise assist, any other person, association, or entity who is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any business competitive with the business conducted by Employer; (iii) induce any employee of Employer to terminate his or her employment with Employer, or hire or assist in the hiring of any such employee by any person, association, or entity not affiliated with Employer. These non-competition obligations shall extend until the earlier of (a) expiration of the Term or (b) one year after termination of the employment relationship. For purposes of this Section, it is specifically understood that Employee may return to private legal practice, without breaching the provisions of this Section. 7.2 Employee understands that the foregoing restrictions may limit his or her ability to engage in certain businesses anywhere in the world during the period provided for above, but acknowledges that Employee will receive sufficiently high remuneration and other benefits (e.g., the right to receive compensation under Section 3.5 for the remainder of the Term upon Involuntary Termination) under this Agreement to justify such restriction. Employee acknowledges that money damages would not be sufficient remedy for any breach of this Article 6 by Employee, and Employer shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Article 7 by terminating any payments then owing to Employee under this Agreement and/or to specific performance and injunctive relief as remedies for such breach or any threatened breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Article 7, but shall be in addition to all remedies available at law or in equity to Employer, including, without limitation, the recovery of damages from Employee and his or her agents involved in such breach. 7.3 It is expressly understood and agreed that Employer and Employee consider the restrictions contained in this Article 7 to be reasonable and necessary to protect the proprietary information of Employer. Nevertheless, if any of the aforesaid restrictions are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable, or overly broad as to geographic area or time, or otherwise unenforceable, the parties intend for the restrictions therein set forth to be modified by such courts so as to be reasonable and enforceable and, as so modified by the court, to be fully enforced. ARTICLE 8: MISCELLANEOUS: 8.1 For purposes of this Agreement the terms "affiliates" or "affiliated" means an entity who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Employer. 8.2 Employee shall refrain, both during the employment relationship and after the employment relationship terminates, from publishing any oral or written statements about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents or representatives that are slanderous, libelous, or defamatory; or that disclose private or confidential information about Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' business affairs, officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that constitute an intrusion into the seclusion or private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about the private lives of Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives; or that place Employer, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives in a false light before the public; or that constitute a misappropriation of the name or likeness of Employer, any it its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of such entities' officers, employees, agents, or representatives. A violation or threatened violation of this prohibition may be enjoined by the courts. 8.3 For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to Employer, to: EOG Resources, Inc. 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration, & Corporate Secretary If to Employee, to the address shown on the first page hereof. Either Employer or Employee may furnish a change of address to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 8.4 This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflict-of-law rule or principle that might refer the construction of the Agreement to the laws of another State or country. 8.5 No failure by either party hereto at any time to give notice of any breach by the other party of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. 8.6 If a dispute arises out of or related to this Agreement, other than a dispute regarding Employee's obligations under Article 6, or Article 7, and if the dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, then Employer and Employee agree to first endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation, before having recourse to any other pro ceeding or forum. Whatever the means of dispute resolution, the prevailing party shall be reimbursed attorney fees and other reasonable costs by the other party. 8.7 Each of Employer and Employee is a citizen of the State of Texas. Employer's principal place of business is in Houston, Harris County, Texas. Employee resides in Harris County, Texas. This Agreement was negotiated and signed in Houston, Texas. This Agreement shall be performed in Houston, Texas. Any litigation that may be brought by either Employer or Employee involving the enforcement of this Agreement or the rights, duties, or obligations of this Agreement, shall be brought exclusively in the State or federal courts sitting in Houston, Harris County, Texas. In the event that service of process cannot be effected upon a party, each party hereby irrevocably appoints the Secretary of State for the State of Texas as its or his agent for service of process to receive the summons and other pleadings in connection with any such litigation. 8.8 It is a desire and intent of the parties that the terms, provisions, covenants, and remedies contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any such term, provision, covenant, or remedy of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances shall, to any extent, be construed to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, then such term, provision, covenant, or remedy shall be construed in a manner so as to permit its enforceability under the applicable law to the fullest extent permitted by law. In any case, the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person, association, or entity or circumstances other than those to which they have been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect. 8.9 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Employer and any other person, association, or entity which may hereafter acquire or succeed to all or substantially all of the business or assets of Employer by any means whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Employee's rights and obligations under Agreement hereof are personal and such rights, benefits, and obligations of Employee shall not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated, or transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of Employer. 8.10 There exist other agreements between Employer and Employee relating to the employment relationship between them, e.g., agreements with respect to compensation and benefit plans. With the exception of the Change of Control Agreement referred to in Section 9.1, which shall remain in full force and effect, this Agreement replaces and merges previous agreements and discussions pertaining to the following subject matters covered herein: the nature of Employee's employment relationship with Employer and the term and termination of such relationship. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with regard to such subject matters, and contains all of the covenants, promises, representations, warranties, and agreements between the parties with respect such subject matters. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, inducement, promise, or agreement, oral or written, has been made by either party with respect to such subject matters, which is not embodied herein, and that no agreement, statement, or promise relating to the employment of Employee by Employer that is not contained in this Agreement shall be valid or binding. Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by each party whose rights hereunder are affected thereby, provided that any such modification must be authorized or approved by the Board of Directors of Employer. ARTICLE 9: CHANGE OF CONTROL: 9.1 Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the parties have executed a Change of Control Agreement dated June 15, 2005 (as amended from time to time, the "Change of Control Agreement"). If during the term of the Change of Control Agreement, a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) occurs or is deemed to have occurred under such agreement, then for the period of time from the occurrence of the Change of Control through the second anniversary of the Change of Control (the "Applicable Period"), the following provisions will apply: (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(i) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (i) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, an Event of Termination for Cause (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred; (a) The following shall be substituted in lieu of Section 3.1(iv) of this Agreement during the Applicable Period: (iv) if, under the Change of Control Agreement, Employee's Disability (as that term is defined in the Change of Control Agreement) shall have occurred. (c) If the termination of Employee's employment occurs for any reason during the Applicable Period, then (i) the provisions of Section 7 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Sections 3.3 through 3.7 of this Agreement, (ii) the provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement shall not apply to Employee, and (iii) the provisions of Section 12 of the Change of Control Agreement shall apply in lieu of the provisions of Section 8.6 of this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employer and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on the date first stated above. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. /s/ BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. This 15th day of June, 2005 EXHIBIT "A" TO EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN EOG RESOURCES, INC. AND BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. Employee Name: Barry Hunsaker, Jr. Initial Term: June 15, 2005 through May 31, 2009 Renewal: After May 31, 2009, Agreement will automatically be renewed annually for a one- year term unless either Employee or Employer provides a 120-day prior written notice of intent not to renew. Position: Senior Vice President and General Counsel Location: Houston, Texas Reporting Relationship: Reports jointly to Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Edmund P. Segner, III, President and Chief of Staff Minimum Annual Base Salary: Three Hundred Sixty-six Thousand Dollars ($366,000) per year Bonus: Employee shall be eligible to participate in the EOG Resources, Inc. Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, at a target of 60% of Annual Base Salary. Such bonus may be paid in a combination of cash, stock options, and/or phantom stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. Long-term Incentives: Employee shall be eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective May 4, 2004, or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by Employer, consistent with similarly situated executives, as determined from time to time by the Compensation Committee of Employer's Board of Directors. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary This 15th day of June, 2005 BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. /s/ BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. This 15th day of June, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.6 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Mark G. Papa (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated June 20, 2001 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. .. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name:Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary MARK G. PAPA /s/ MARK G. PAPA

EXHIBIT 99.7 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Edmund P. Segner, III (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated June 22, 2001 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. .. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary EDMUND P. SEGNER, III /s/ EDMUND P. SEGNER, III

EXHIBIT 99.8 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Loren M. Leiker (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated July 1, 2001 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary LOREN M. LEIKER /s/ LOREN M. LEIKER

EXHIBIT 99.9 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Gary L. Thomas (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated July 1, 2001 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. .. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary GARY L. THOMAS /s/ GARY L. THOMAS

EXHIBIT 99.10 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Barry Hunsaker, Jr. (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated June 29, 2001 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. .. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary BARRY HUNSAKER, JR. /s/ BARRY HUNSAKER, JR.

EXHIBIT 99.11 AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement ("Agreement") between EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Timothy K. Driggers (the "Employee") is effective as of this 15th day of June, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 21. WITNESSETH: Whereas, the Company considers it to be in the best interests of its stockholders to encourage the continued employment of certain key employees of the Company notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Employee is a key employee of the Company; and Whereas, the Company believes that the possibility of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company may result in the termination by the Employee of the Employee's employment by the Company or in the distraction of the Employee from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company, in either case to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and Whereas, the Company recognizes that the Employee could suffer adverse financial and professional consequences if a Change of Control of the Company were to occur; and Whereas, the Company wishes to continue to protect the Employee if a Change of Control of the Company occurs, thereby encouraging the Employee to remain in the employ of the Company and not to be distracted from the performance of Employee's duties to the Company by the possibility of a Change of Control of the Company; and Whereas, the Company and the Employee have entered into a Change of Control Agreement dated August 21, 2004 (the "COC Agreement"); and Whereas, the parties now wish to modify the COC Agreement and to restate the COC Agreement in its entirety as set forth below; Now, Therefore, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. OTHER EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS. (a) This Agreement does not affect the Employee's existing or future employment arrangements with the Company unless a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement. The Employee's employment with the Company shall continue to be governed by the Employee's existing or future employment agreements with the Company, if any, or, in the absence of any employment agreement, shall continue to be at the will of the Company, except that if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement and the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to receive certain benefits as provided in this Agreement. (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Employee's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by the Company or any of its Affiliates and for which the Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Employee may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice of or provided by, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliates at or subsequent to the date of termination of the Employee's employment with the Company shall be payable or otherwise provided in accordance with such plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. SECTION 2. CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. A "Change of Control of the Company" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (an "Exchange Act Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (c) of this Section 2 or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (b) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 3, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an Exchange Act Person other than the Board of Directors; (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Exchange Act Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, or (ii) an event occurs which, had it occurred after a Change of Control of the Company, would with proper notice from Employee constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Employee that such action (A) was taken at the request of a third party that has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control of the Company or (B) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change of Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement, such Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred on the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or event. SECTION 3. TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall expire on the first to occur of: (a) the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, which events shall also be deemed automatically to terminate the Employee's employment by the Company; or (b) the termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company. The expiration of the term of this Agreement shall not terminate this Agreement itself or affect the right of the Employee or the Employee's legal representatives to enforce the payment of any amount or other benefit to which the Employee was entitled before the expiration of the term of this Agreement or to which the Employee became entitled as a result of the event that caused the term of this Agreement to expire. SECTION 4. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. (a) An "Event of Termination for Cause" shall mean the Employee's (i) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities which remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days following written notice to the Employee by the Company of such event, or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Employee has, or reasonably should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company. (b) For purposes of this Section 4, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Employee's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (c) The cessation of employment of the Employee as a result of the alleged occurrence of an event referred to in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Event of Termination for Cause" shall not be deemed to be as a result of an Event of Termination for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Employee, if the Employee is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Employee and the Employee is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Employee, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, the Employee is guilty of the conduct described in clause (ii) or (iii) of such definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. Any determination of the Board of Directors under this clause (c) shall not be binding on the Employee, shall not be conclusive as to whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred, and shall not affect Employee's right to contest whether an Event of Termination for Cause has occurred. SECTION 5. EVENT OF TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON. An "Event of Termination for Good Reason" shall mean, after a Change of Control of the Company, the occurrence of any of the following events, provided Employee serves written notice of termination in connection with or based upon any such event within 90 days of the Employee's knowledge of the occurrence of such event: (a) a reduction in the Employee's authority and/or responsibilities (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company's ceasing to be a publicly traded entity); or (b) a reduction in Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company or a reduction in Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company, or the failure to continue the Employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which Employee is eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), in each case other than as a part of a general program to reduce compensation or benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company; or (c) a relocation of the Employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the Employee's primary place of work immediately prior to the Change of Control of the Company (provided, however, this clause (c) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after a Change of Control of the Company has occurred and the above referenced 90 day period has passed), or (d) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption in writing of its obligation to perform this Agreement by any successor to the Company prior to a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, any action referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall constitute an Event of Termination for Good Reason under the foregoing definition regardless of whether the Company is permitted to take such action under any employment contract with the Employee. SECTION 6. NOTICE OF TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any termination by the Employee or the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any determination of the Employee's Disability, that occurs within two years of such Change of Control shall be communicated by notice to the other party that shall indicate the specific paragraph of Section 7 pursuant to which the Employee is to receive benefits as a result of the termination. If the notice states that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability, the notice shall specifically describe the basis for the determination of the Employee's Disability and shall state the date of the determination of the Employee's Disability, which date shall be not more than ten days before the date such notice is given. If the notice is from the Company and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Employee that the Company believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Cause, and in the case of a termination under clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Event of Termination for Cause, shall include the resolution of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 4(c). If the notice is from the Employee and states that the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Employee as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, the notice shall specifically describe the action or inaction of the Company that the Employee believes constitutes an Event of Termination for Good Reason. Each notice given pursuant to this Section 6 (other than a notice stating that the Employee's employment by the Company has been automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's Disability) shall state a date, which shall be not fewer than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date such notice is given, on which the termination of the Employee's employment by the Company is effective. The date so stated in accordance with this Section 6 shall be the "Termination Date". If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, any subsequent purported termination by the Company of the Employee's employment by the Company, or any subsequent purported determination by the Company of the Employee's Disability, within two years of such Change of Control shall be ineffective unless that termination or determination shall have been communicated by the Company to the Employee by notice that meets the requirements of the foregoing provisions of this Section 6 and the provisions of Section 9. SECTION 7. BENEFITS PAYABLE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL AND TERMINATION. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, and the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (whether by the Employee or the Company or automatically as provided in Section 3) within two years after the occurrence of that Change of Control of the Company, the Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (a) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or by the Employee before the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (b) If the Employee's employment by the Company is automatically terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, then the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary accrued through the date of the occurrence of that event but not previously paid to the Employee, and the Employee shall be entitled to any other amounts or benefits provided under any plan, policy, practice, program, contract or arrangement of or with the Company, which shall be governed by the terms thereof (except as explicitly modified by this Agreement). (c) If the Employee's employment by the Company is terminated (x) by the Company, other than as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Cause, or (y) by the Employee after the occurrence of an Event of Termination for Good Reason, or (z) by the Employee for any reason during the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after a Change of Control of the Company, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following: (i) the Company shall pay to the Employee the Base Salary and compensation for earned but unused vacation time accrued through the Termination Date but not previously paid to the Employee; (ii) the Company shall pay to the Employee, as a lump sum, an amount equal to the total of the following amounts: (A) 2.99 times the amount of the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (B) two (2) times the amount of the Employee's target annual bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date); plus (C) the amount of the Money Purchase Pension Plan contributions that would have been made by the Company on behalf of the Employee if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date; and plus (D) the amount that would have been paid on behalf of the Employee as matching amounts to the Company's Savings Plan if the Employee had continued to be employed by the Company at the Employee's Annual Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date) for three years following the Termination Date and had continued to contribute to the Company's Savings Plan during such three year period at the Employee's then current contribution level. (iii) the Company shall arrange for the Employee's uninterrupted participation for three (3) years after the Termination Date in the Company's major medical/dental insurance plan, which participation shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for participation in a major medical/dental insurance plan of another employer; (iv) the Company shall cause the Employee to receive three (3) years age and service credit for eligibility for the Company's retiree medical insurance coverage; and (v) the Company shall provide outplacement services at a cost not to exceed $50,000.00. Each payment required to be made to the Employee pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 7 shall be made by check drawn on an account of the Company at a bank located in the United States of America (unless the Employee has elected to have salary payments deposited directly by the Company to a bank account maintained by the Employee, in which event the Company shall make a direct deposit of the payment to that account), and shall be paid (x) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated as a result of the Employee's death, the Employee's Disability or the Employee's Retirement, not more than 30 days immediately following the date of the occurrence of that event, and (y) if the Employee's employment by the Company was terminated for any other reason, not more than ten days immediately following the Termination Date. SECTION 8. SUCCESSORS. If a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the expiration of the term of this Agreement, (a) the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate with, merge into or sell or otherwise transfer its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, or permit any person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the Successor shall have assumed in writing the Company's obligations under this Agreement and agreed to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; and (b) not fewer than ten days before the consummation of any consolidation of the Company with, merger by the Company into, or sale or other transfer by the Company of its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to, any person, the Company shall give the Employee notice of that proposed transaction. SECTION 9. NOTICE. Notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the other party or when deposited with the United States Postal Service as certified or registered mail with postage prepaid and addressed: (a) if to the Employee, at the Employee's address last shown on the Company's records, and (b) if to the Company, at 333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002, directed to the attention of the Company's Chairman of the Board, or, in either case, to such other address as the party to whom such notice is to be given shall have specified by notice given to the other party. SECTION 10. WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company may withhold from all payments to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement all taxes that, by applicable federal or state law, the Company is required to so withhold. SECTION 11. U.S. EXCISE TAX INDEMNIFICATION. (a) In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company's Change of Control Severance Plan or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 11) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Employee if requested by either the Company or the Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to clause (c) of this Section 11 and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) If the Company elects to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service that Excise Tax is due from the Employee, the Employee shall cooperate fully with the Company in order to effectively contest such claim, including, but not limited to providing information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and permitting the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim. The Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after- tax basis, for any Excise Tax or other tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. (d) The Company may pay a claim by the Internal Revenue Service and direct the Employee to sue for a refund. If, after the receipt by the Employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this clause (d), the Employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). SECTION 12. EXPENSES OF ENFORCEMENT. The Company agrees to pay as incurred (within ten days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Employee), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity, interpretation or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus, in each case, interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. SECTION 13. EMPLOYMENT BY WHOLLY OWNED ENTITIES. If, at or after the Effective Date, the Employee is or becomes an employee of one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company, references in this Agreement to the Employee's employment by the Company shall include the Employee's employment by any such wholly owned entity. SECTION 14. NO OBLIGATION TO MITIGATE; NO RIGHTS OF OFFSET. (a) The Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or other benefit required to be paid to the Employee pursuant to this Agreement, whether by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any such payment or other benefit be reduced on account of any compensation earned or benefits received by the Employee as a result of employment by another person. (b) The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Employee or others. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived (whether by act or course of conduct or omission or otherwise) unless that amendment or waiver is by written instrument signed by the parties hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. SECTION 16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation, construction and enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas. SECTION 17. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 18. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute the same instrument. SECTION 19. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Employee's legal representative. The Company may not assign any of its obligations under this Agreement unless (i) such assignment is to a Successor and (ii) the requirements of Section 8 are fulfilled. SECTION 20. CODE SECTION 409A. The parties hereto will act in good faith to equitably restructure any payments and benefits provided for in this Agreement to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any such restructuring shall not reduce the value of such benefits and payments. SECTION 21. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms and phrases have the indicated meanings: (i) "Affiliate" and "Affiliates" mean, when used with respect to any entity, individual, or other person, any other entity, individual, or other person which, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such entity, individual or person. "Affiliated Company" means any entity that is an Affiliate of the Company. (ii) "Annual Base Salary" means, at any point in time, the regular rate of wages payable to the Employee, expressed on an annualized basis, including any base salary that has been earned but deferred. (iii) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (iv) "Change of Control of the Company" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 2. (v) "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. The term "Company" shall also include any Successor, whether the liability of such Successor under this Agreement is established by contract or occurs by operation of law. (vi) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Agreement. (vii) "Employee" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. (viii) "Employee's Disability" means: (A) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees; and (B) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of determination, the physical or mental disability of the Employee determined in accordance with the disability policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. .. (ix) "Employee's Retirement" means (x) if no Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company at the time in effect and generally applicable to its salaried employees, and (y) if a Change of Control of the Company shall have occurred before the date of the Employee's proposed retirement, the retirement of the Employee from the employ of the Company in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company in effect immediately before the occurrence of the first Change of Control of the Company and generally applicable to its salaried employees. (x) "Event of Termination for Good Reason" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 5. (xi) "Event of Termination for Cause" has the meaning assigned to that phrase in Section 4. (xii) "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3. (xiii) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government, or agency or political subdivision of any government. (xiv) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (xv) "Successor" means a person with or into which the Company shall have been merged or consolidated or to which the Company shall have transferred its assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety. (xvi) "Termination Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6. (xvii) "This Agreement" means this Change of Control Agreement as it may be amended from time to time. (b) In the event of the enactment of any successor provision to any statute or rule cited in this Agreement, references in this Agreement to such statute or rule shall be to such successor provision. (c) The headings of Sections of this Agreement shall not control the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. (d) References in this Agreement to any Section are to the corresponding Section of this Agreement unless the context otherwise indicates. In Witness Whereof, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Name: Patricia Edwards Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary TIMOTHY K. DRIGGERS /s/ TIMOTHY K. DRIGGERS

EXHIBIT 99.12 EOG RESOURCES, INC. CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN (As Amended and Restated Effective June 15, 2005) WHEREAS, EOG Resources, Inc. ("Company") desires to provide severance benefits to eligible employees terminated as a result of a Change of Control; WHEREAS, the Company sponsors the Change of Control Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective May 8, 2001 (the "COC Severance Plan"); WHEREAS, the Company wishes to further modify the COC Severance Plan in accordance with Section 9 hereof and to restate the COC Severance Plan in its entirety as set forth below. NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby adopts the following terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan ("Plan") for the benefit of its eligible employees. Section 1 - Eligible Employees The benefits provided pursuant to this Plan shall be available to all Company (including its subsidiaries, or Affiliates) employees in the United States and on international assignment from the United States who meet all of the following requirements: (a) The employee is classified either as regular full-time or regular part-time and is not covered under any collective bargaining agreement with the Company or a subsidiary, or Affiliate, thereof. (b) The employee is Involuntarily Terminated on or within two years after a Change of Control of the Company. However, if any company, division, subsidiary, or Affiliate, or other business operation of the Company or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates is divested (whether in a stock or asset transaction) by the Company on or within two years after a Change of Control (such business segment being referred to herein as a "Divested Entity"), such divestiture shall not be deemed an Involuntary Termination of any employee employed by a Divested Entity, including an employer of divested assets. No eligible employee shall receive a severance benefit under the Plan if such employee receives an offer of employment at a location within fifty (50) miles from the employee's present work site and at the employee's same or higher rate of Base Pay or accepts an offer of employment at any rate of pay from a Divested Entity, including a purchaser, or Affiliate of a purchaser, of assets from the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or Affiliates. Employees of such a Divested Entity, including employees who accept an offer of employment from such a purchaser, or Affiliate of a purchaser, of assets, who remain employed by the Divested Entity subsequent to the divestiture shall not be eligible for benefits under the Plan merely by reason of the divestiture, but any such employee who is thereafter Involuntarily Terminated within twelve months of the closing date of the divestiture shall continue to be eligible for benefits under this Plan, subject to the provisions of Section 2(a)(ii). Section 2 - Benefits (a) Subject to Paragraph (c) of this Section 2, an eligible employee who is Involuntarily Terminated shall receive a severance payment in an amount equal to the greater of: (1) six (6) months of Base Pay, or (2) the aggregate sum of: (A) two weeks of Base Pay per Year of Service or portion thereof, plus (B) one month of Base Pay for each $10,000 or portion thereof of the employee's annual Base Pay, plus (C) one month of Base Pay for each five percent (5%) of such employee's annual bonus award opportunity, if any, or portion thereof under the Company's annual bonus program in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (or on the Date of Termination, if greater). (i) Payment of the severance benefit provided above shall be made in cash in a lump sum within fifteen (15) days of the date the Company (or its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) receives the employee's executed release as provided for in Section 4. (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the amount of the severance payments provided under this Plan shall be in lieu of any other layoff or severance benefits of the Company or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates (not described in clauses (A) through (D) below), and shall be reduced by any severance payments receivable by the employee from (A) any individual contractual severance arrangement (whether under an employment contract, consulting agreement or other agreement) in effect between the employee and the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity, (B) any severance or layoff plan of any Divested Entity of the company, including a purchaser of assets, after divestiture of such entity, and (c) any monies or compensation payable to terminated employees by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity pursuant to any governmental, statutory or regulatory program or scheme. (b) For purposes of this Plan: (iii) "Base Pay" shall mean the greater of the employee's compensation from the Company or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates at the regular hourly, monthly, annual or other applicable rate which was in effect immediately prior to the employee's Involuntary Termination or immediately prior to the Change of Control. (iv) "Year of Service" with respect to regular full-time employees shall mean each aggregate period of 365 Days of Employment with the Company, or an Affiliate thereof, commencing with the employee's date of hire or rehire. A "Day of Employment" shall mean a day on which the employee is included in the current payroll records of the Company, or an Affiliate thereof. Days of Employment and Years of Service shall be aggregated under this Plan only so long as the period of continuous Days of Employment occurring prior to any interruption in such period is equal to or greater than the number of days of such interruption; otherwise, only the most recent continuous period of Days of Employment and Years of Service shall be counted under this Plan. Any period of authorized leave, layoff, or disability shall not count as an interruption in employment so long as an employee returns to work at the time such status ceases. A Day of Employment shall include a day during which an employee of the Company, or a subsidiary, or Affiliate, thereof, was included on the payroll records of any company acquired by the Company or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates. "Year of Service" with respect to a part-time employee shall mean the greatest number of aggregate years of service for which such employee is given credit for benefit accrual purposes under any single qualified retirement or pension plan of the Company, or an Affiliate thereof. For employees who have been on both regular full-time status and part-time or temporary status, Years of Service shall be computed separately for each status according to the foregoing rules and aggregated for total Years of Service. (c) The Aggregate Present Value (as defined below) of the benefit amount calculated as a lump sum under Paragraph (a) of this Section 2 on the Involuntary Termination Date shall not exceed the lesser of the following amounts: (i) 2.99 multiplied by the Base Amount as defined herein, or (ii) three times the sum of (A) and (B) where (A) equals employee's annual Base Pay and (B) equals 100% of employee's annual bonus target award, if any, under the Company's annual bonus program as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control Date (or if no target annual bonus for the year in which the Change of Control occurs has been set, the target annual bonus for the immediately prior year) (or if increased, immediately prior to the Termination Date). For the purpose of this Section 2(c), "Aggregate Present Value" shall have the meaning provided under Section 1274(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). If any federal or state tax withholding is required to be made from such benefit amount, the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) may withhold the required amount from any benefit payable under the Plan. (d) Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the employee, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Plan or otherwise (a "Payment"), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by the employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Subject to the provisions of this Section 2(d), all determinations required to be made hereunder, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by a nationally recognized public accounting firm chosen by the Company (the "Accounting Firm") at the sole expense of the Company, which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the employee within 15 business days of the date of termination of the employee's employment, if applicable, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the employee, the Accounting Firm shall furnish the employee with an opinion that he has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments, which will not have been made by the Company should have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. If the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant hereto and the employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the employee. The employee shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the employee knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The employee shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30)-day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the employee in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the employee shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including (without limitation) accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith to effectively contest such claim, and (iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions hereof the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the employee to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the employee agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine, provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the employee with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority. If, after the receipt by the employee of a Gross-Up Payment or the payment by the Company of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant hereto, the employee becomes entitled to receive, and receives, any refund with respect to such claim, the employee shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements hereof) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). (e) Any severance payment to which an eligible employee may become entitled under this Plan shall be reduced in proportion to any amounts received by the eligible employee under any other severance plan maintained by the Company (or its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity) or any agreement entered into between the eligible employee and the Company (or its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity). Section 3 - Involuntary Termination For purposes of this Plan, "Involuntary Termination" or "Involuntarily Terminated" shall mean: (a) Termination of an eligible employee's employment with the Company (or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity) at the election of the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or the new owners of a Divested Entity) for any reason except a Termination for Cause, as defined below. (i) "Termination for Cause" shall mean termination at the election of the Company (or a subsidiary, or Affiliate, thereof or the new owners of a Divested Entity) by reason of the employee's (A) conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal), (B) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform employee's duties and responsibilities, or (C) willfully engaging in conduct which the employee has, or in the opinion of the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or the new owners of a Divested Entity) should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company (or a subsidiary, or Affiliate, or the new owners of the Divested Entity). (b) "Termination for Good Reason" which, for purposes of the Plan, shall mean termination, by written notice from an eligible employee setting forth the particulars and delivered to and received by the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be), by the employee of his employment with the Company (or one of its subsidiaries, or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity) in connection with or based upon and within 90 days of: (i) a reduction in Employee's Base Pay or, excluding a reduction of benefits by reason of a divestiture described in Section 1, the failure to continue the employee's full participation in any employee benefit plan or program (unless replaced by a substantially comparable plan or program) in which employee is eligible to participate prior to the notification (other than as a result of the normal expiration of such plan or program), other than a reduction in benefits or failure to continue benefits that is part of a general program to reduce benefits on a proportional basis relative to all other employees of the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be); or (ii) a relocation of the employee's primary place of work to a location more than 50 miles away from the employee's primary place of work at the time of the notice (provided, however, this clause (iii) shall no longer apply to an employee after he has accepted any such relocation after the Change of Control Date and the above referenced 90 day period has passed); provided, however, in any event the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) shall have a period of not less than thirty (30) days after the receipt of such written notice by the employee to remedy the situation. In the event the particular facts described by the employee in his or her notice do not constitute an Involuntary Termination, or the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) remedies the situation during such remedial period of time, the employee shall not be entitled to severance benefits under the Plan with respect thereto. Section 4 - Release Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no eligible employee who is Involuntarily Terminated shall receive a severance benefit hereunder unless such employee (i) executes and returns to the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) within such time frame as determined by the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be), not to exceed forty-five (45) days after the later of (x) the date of receipt of the release by the employee or (y) the Involuntary Termination Date, a written release in the form prescribed by the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) in its sole discretion from any and all claims pertaining to his or her employment and separation from employment with the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be), that may arise under applicable federal, state or local law, including, but not limited to, the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act, and (ii) does not subsequently revoke the foregoing release within seven (7) days after its execution and delivery to the Company (or its subsidiary, or Affiliate, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be). In the event the last day of these applicable time periods is not a Business Day, the period shall be extended until the next following Business Day. For purposes of this Section 4, "Business Day" shall mean any day of the year except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which the Company (or its subsidiaries, or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity, as the case may be) is closed. Section 5 - Definitions For purposes of this Plan, all capitalized terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below or as defined elsewhere in this Plan: (a) "Affiliate" is used to indicate a relationship to a specified Person and shall mean a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. (b) "Associate" is used to indicate a relationship with a specified Person and shall mean (i) any corporation, partnership or other organization to which such specified Person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more of any class equity securities, (ii) any trust or other estate in which such specified Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such specified Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, (iii) any relative or spouse of such specified Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such specified Person or who is a director or officer of the Company or any of its parents or subsidiaries, or Affiliates, and (iv) any person who is a director or officer of such specified Person or any of its parents or subsidiaries, or Affiliates (other than the Company or any wholly-owned subsidiary, or Affiliate, of the Company). (c) "Base Amount" shall have the meaning provided under Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder. (d) "Beneficial Owner" shall be defined by reference to Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor rule or regulation; provided, however, and without limitation, any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other person or entity which has the right to acquire any Voting Stock at any time in the future, whether such right is contingent or absolute, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be the Beneficial Owner of such Voting Stock. (e) "Change of Control" means: (1) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (B) the combined voting power of the then- outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that, for purposes of this clause (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliated Company, (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with subclauses (A), (B) and (C) of clause (3) of this definition or (v) an acquisition by a Qualified Institutional Investor, but only for so long as such investor remains a Qualified Institutional Investor; (2) Individuals who, as of May 3, 2005, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; (3) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of the assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entitles that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then- outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries, or Affiliates) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then- outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or (4) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (f) "Change of Control Date" shall mean the day on which a Change of Control becomes effective. (g) "Involuntary Termination Date" shall mean employee's last date of employment by reason of an Involuntary Termination. (h) "Permanent Disability" shall mean such permanent disability that qualifies employee for benefits under Company's long-term disability benefit plan covering the employee at the time. (i) "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or political subdivision thereof. (j) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d- l(b)(1) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Shares"), does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Common Shares on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Common Shares, and (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding; provided, however, that a Person which would constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor except for its failure to satisfy clause (ii) of this definition shall nonetheless constitute a Qualified Institutional Investor if (A) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person shall have, as of December 31, 2004, reported beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of the Common Shares for a period of two consecutive years and shall thereafter continuously beneficially own greater than 5% of the Common Shares then outstanding prior to the time of determination, (B) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Common Shares then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Common Shares), and (C) such Person shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 30% of the Common Shares then outstanding. Solely for the purposes of the above definition of "Qualified Institutional Investor", a person shall be deemed to be the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Company. (k) "Voting Stock" shall mean all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in elections for directors, considered as one class; provided, however, that if the Company has shares of Voting Stock entitled to more or less than one vote for any such share, each reference to a proportion of shares of Voting Stock shall be deemed to refer to such proportion of the votes entitled to be cast by such shares. Section 6 - Named Fiduciary The Company shall be the named fiduciary for purposes of carrying out the operation and administration of this Plan. The Company may designate one or more of its employees to carry out the fiduciary responsibilities of the Company under this Plan. Section 7 - Administration (a) Administration of the Plan. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") or its designee as shall be designated from time to time (the "Plan Administrator"), provided that in the event of an impending Change of Control, the Plan Administrator may appoint (a) a person who is an Incumbent Director immediately prior to the Change of Control or (b) a person or persons who are independent of the Company or persons operating under its control or on its behalf to be the Plan Administrator effective upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, and such Plan Administrator shall not be removed following a Change of Control. If such person determines in his or her discretion to no longer be the Plan Administrator following a Change of Control, the Company may appoint a successor Plan Administrator who is (i) a person who was an Incumbent Director immediately prior to the Change of Control or (ii) independent of the Company or persons operating within its control or on its behalf. For purposes of performing services under this Plan, following a Change of Control, the Plan Administrator who is appointed pursuant to this Section 7(a) shall be paid an amount on a monthly basis equal to one twelfth of the annual cash director fee for non-employee directors in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control. The Plan Administrator shall have authority to delegate responsibility for the operation and administration of the Plan. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, including without limitation Section 9 below, and the rights of eligible employees pursuant thereto, the Plan Administrator shall have discretionary authority to (i) adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as the Plan Administrator shall, from time to time, deem advisable; (ii) resolve all questions or ambiguities relating to the interpretation and application of the Plan (and any notices or agreements relating thereto); (iii) make eligibility and benefit determinations under the Plan, including any factual determinations relevant thereto; and (iv) otherwise supervise the administration of the Plan in accordance with the terms hereof. The decision of the Plan Administrator upon all matters within the scope of its authority shall be conclusive and binding on all parties. (b) Indemnification of Plan Administrator. In addition to such other rights of indemnification applicable to the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall be indemnified by the Company against the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which the Plan Administrator may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, and against all amounts paid by the Plan Administrator in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by the Board of Directors of the Company) or paid by the Plan Administrator in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be determined in such action, suit or proceeding that the Plan Administrator has acted in bad faith; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after receipt of notice of institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, the Plan Administrator shall offer the Company in writing the opportunity, at its own cost, to handle and defend the same. (c) Notice. Any notice required to be delivered by the Company or the Plan Administrator or by an eligible employee under this Plan shall be deemed delivered to the Company and to the eligible employee when deposited in the U.S. mails, and addressed to the Company's Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary and to the eligible employee at his or her last known address as reflected on the books and records of the Company. Section 8 - Funding All funds required to provide for payments to be made under this Plan shall come from the general assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, or Affiliates. Section 9 - Amendment and Termination This Plan may be amended or terminated by the separate approval of the Board of Directors of the Company and the Compensation Committee at any time for any reason; provided, however, no termination of this Plan shall occur, and no amendment shall reduce or restrict the benefits provided hereunder for two years following a Change of Control Date. Notwithstanding the above, the Plan may only be terminated or amended to the detriment of employees of the Company (its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or a Divested Entity) upon giving at least two years' notice to employees affected by the termination or amendment of the Plan. Termination or amendment of the Plan shall not affect the rights of employees who are Involuntarily Terminated prior to the date such termination or amendment is approved. Section 10 - Death, Disability or Retirement In the event of the employee's death, retirement, or Permanent Disability following the employee's Involuntary Termination Date, the employee or the employee's legal representatives shall be entitled to receive the balance of any unpaid amounts payable under this Plan. In no event will the employee or the employee's legal representatives receive payments under this Plan if the employee dies, retires or becomes Permanently Disabled prior to his Involuntary Termination Date. Section 11 - No Right to Employment This Plan does not constitute or imply a contract between the Company and its employees. Further, this Plan creates no Company obligation nor any individual obligation, right, privilege, term, or condition of employment. The Company (or a subsidiary, or Affiliate, thereof) may at any time dismiss an employee from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Plan unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan. Section 12 - Governing Law The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with applicable federal law, and to the extent not preempted thereby, with the laws of the State of Texas notwithstanding any conflict of law principles. Section 13 - Severability If any provision of this Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws. If it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the sole determination of the Company, materially altering the intent of the Plan, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction and the remainder of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect. Section 14 - Claims All claims for benefits under the Plan by an eligible employee shall be made in writing to the Company within sixty (60) days of the date of the alleged occurrence giving rise to the claim. If the Company, or any person(s) designated for the purpose of claims resolution, believes that the claim should be denied, the claimant shall be notified in writing of the denial of the claim within thirty (30) days after the Company's receipt of the claim. Such notice shall: (a) set forth the specific reason or reasons for the denial, making reference to the pertinent provisions of the Plan on which the denial is based; (b) describe any additional material or information that should be received before the claim may be acted upon favorably and explain the reason why such material or information, if any, is needed; and (c) inform the claimant of his or her right pursuant to this Section 14 to request review of the decision by the Company. A claimant who believes that he or she has submitted all available and relevant information may appeal the denial of a claim to the Company by submitting a written request for review within sixty (60) days after the date on which such denial is received. The person making the request for review may examine the Plan documents and the request for review may discuss any issues relevant to the claim. The Company shall decide whether or not to grant the claim within thirty (30) days after receipt of the request for review, but this period may be extended by the Company for up to an additional thirty (30) days in special circumstances. The Company's decision shall be in writing, shall include specific reasons for the decision, and shall refer to pertinent provisions of the Plan on which the decision is based. Any and all disputes that may arise between the Company and the claimant following the exhaustion of the claims procedures provided for under the Plan shall be resolved by a court of competent jurisdiction. Section 15 - Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, it is intended that no payments or benefits provided for under this Plan shall be "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"). The Company shall amend the Plan to the extent determined by the Plan Administrator to be necessary to avoid the imposition of tax and interest under Section 409A; provided that no such amendment shall reduce the present value of payments and benefits under the Plan. Section 16 - Effective Date This amended and restated Plan is effective as of June 15, 2005. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company has executed this Plan effective as of the date above written. EOG RESOURCES, INC. By: /s/ PATRICIA EDWARDS Title: Vice President, Human Resources, Administration & Corporate Secretary Attest: /s/ CANDICE WELLS Assistant Secretary


