FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20061128174645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
I. Production Growth Targets for 2006, 2007 and 2008 to 2010
EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) is reiterating its previously announced 2006 total company production growth target of approximately 9 percent. For 2007, the production growth target is approximately 10 percent. For 2008-2010, EOG is targeting annual production growth of 7 to 11 percent, or an average of 9 percent per year.
II. Capital Expenditure Budget
For 2007, EOG's preliminary capital expenditures budget is estimated to be approximately $3.4 billion, excluding acquisitions.
III. Updated Fort Worth Barnett Shale Activity
Based on production results from downspacing programs in Johnson County, production testing in several surrounding counties and additional acreage of approximately 100,000 acres, EOG has increased the potential reserve target (probable and possible, not proved) for the Fort Worth Barnett Shale. EOG has accumulated over 600,000 acres in the play.
IV. Updated Uinta Basin, Utah Activity
Based on recent pressure and core-testing data on EOG's Mesaverde legacy properties in the Uinta Basin, Utah, EOG will pursue future drilling activity in the area on 20 acre spacing between wells with the ultimate potential to go to 10 acre spacing.
V. Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding EOG's future financial position, business strategy, budgets, reserve information, projected levels of production, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations of them or by comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results, the ability to replace or increase reserves or to increase production, or the ability to generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements. Forward-l ooking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although EOG believes its expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements include, among others: the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; the timing and impact of liquefied natural gas imports and changes in demand or prices for ammonia or methanol; the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG; the extent of EOG's success in discovering, developing, marketing and producing reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties; the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise; the availability and cost of drilling rigs, experienced drilling crews, materials and equipment used in well completions, and tubular steel; the availability, terms and timing of governmental and other permits and rights of way; the availability of pipeline transportation capacity; the extent to which EOG can economically develop its Barnett Shale acreage outside of Johnson County, Texas; whether EOG is successful in its efforts to more densely develop its acreage in the Barnett Shale and other production areas; political developments around the world; acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; weather; and financial market conditions. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements might not occur. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and EOG undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors - The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. As noted above, statements of proved reserves are only estimates and may be imprecise. Any reserve estimates provided in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include not only proved reserves, but also other categories of reserves that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit EOG from including in filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, available from EOG at P.O. Box 4362, Houston, Texas 77210-4362 (Attn: Investor Relations ). You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 



