FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20070910164351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 10, 2007, EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) closed its sale of $600 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.875% Senior Notes due 2017 (Senior Notes). The Senior Notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (Indenture), by and between EOG, as issuer, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly, Texas Commerce Bank National Association)), as trustee, and an officers' certificate, dated September 10, 2007, pursuant to the Indenture setting forth the specific terms of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-137341), dated September 15, 2006, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Indenture, officers' certificate and the form of the global note evidencing the Senior Notes are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
                              
Exhibit No.
Description
* Exhibits filed herewith

Exhibit 4.2
The undersigned, Helen Y. Lim, Vice President and Treasurer, and Patricia L. Edwards, Vice President, Human Resources, Administration and Corporate Secretary, of EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), hereby certify, pursuant to Sections 102 and 301 of the Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (the ""), among the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly, Texas Commerce Bank National Association)), as Trustee (the ""), that the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President and Treasurer of the Company approved, pursuant to the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company dated August 21, 2007, that the terms of a series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, and the form thereof, are as follows:
Company
Indenture
Trustee
Each of the undersigned hereby certify that:
I have read Sections 102, 301 and 303 of the Indenture and the definitions in the Indenture relating thereto.
The statements made herein are based either upon my personal knowledge or on information, data and reports furnished to me by the officers, counsel or employees of the Company who have knowledge of the relevant facts.
In my opinion, I have made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable me to express an informed opinion as to whether or not all conditions provided for in the Indenture with respect to the determination of the terms of the Notes and the form thereof, and the authentication and delivery of the Notes, have been complied with.
In my opinion, all conditions precedent to the determination of the terms and form of the Notes and to the authentication by the Trustee of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount thereof have been complied with and such Notes may be delivered in accordance with the Indenture.
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning provided in the Indenture.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto signed their respective names on this 10th day of September, 2007.
 
/s/ Helen Y. Lim Helen Y. Lim Vice President and Treasurer
/s/ Patricia L. Edwards Patricia L. Edwards Vice President, Human Resources, Administration and Corporate Secretary

EXHIBIT 4.3
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC") OR CEDE & CO., ITS NOMINEE ("CEDE & CO.").  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN DTC OR CEDE & CO. OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST THEREIN.
EOG Resources, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of ______________________ Dollars on September 15, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from September 10, 2007 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, in each year (or if any such date is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), commencing March 15, 2008, at the rate of 5.875% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in Houston, Texas, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; that in case this Security is held by a Depository or its nominee, payment of principal, interest and premium, if any, shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by such Depository.
provided, however
provided, further, however,
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly, Texas Commerce Bank National Association)), as trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto (including as supplemented by an Officers' Certificate pursuant thereto) reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of t he series designated on the face hereof.
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the election of the Company, at a redemption price equal to the greater of a) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities then outstanding to be redeemed; or b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, , in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of reco rd at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.
plus
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registr ation of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder, alter or impair the right of the Holder, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except for Section 113 of the Indenture (which limits interest to the maximum amount permissible by law), the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture (including as may be supplemented by an Officers' Certificate).
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

EXHIBIT 5.1
EOG Resources, Inc. 1111 Bagby, Sky Lobby 2 Houston, Texas 77002
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offering by the Company of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.875% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated September 1, 1991, as supplemented by an officer's certificate setting forth the specific terms applicable to the Notes (as so supplemented, the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly, Texas Commerce Bank National Association)), as trustee. We refer to the registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-137341) (the "Registration Statement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") by the Company on September 15, 2006, including the base prospectus contained therein, and the prospectus supplement (the "Prospectus Supplement") filed with the Commission on S eptember 7, 2007, relating to the offering of the Notes.
As counsel to the Company, we have examined such corporate records, documents and questions of law as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion. In such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of signatures and the conformity to the originals of the documents supplied to us as copies. As to various questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon statements and certificates of officers and representatives of the Company. Without limiting the foregoing, we have examined (i) the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5, 2007, among the Company, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and the other underwriters (the "Underwriters") named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement"), (ii) the Indenture and (iii) resolutions adopted by the Company relating to the Notes.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the limitations, qualifications, assumptions and exceptions stated herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, will under the laws of the State of Texas, constitute legal and binding obligations of the Company. We express no opinion concerning (a) the validity or enforceability of any provisions contained in the Indenture that purport to waive or not give effect to rights to notices, defenses, subrogation or other rights or benefits that cannot be effectively waived under applicable law or (b) the enforceability of indemnification provisions to the extent they purport to relate to liabilities resulting from or based upon negligence or any violation of federal or state securities or blue sky laws.
The opinion expressed in this letter is subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and to general principles of equity, including without limitation concepts of materiality and principles of reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
The opinion expressed herein is limited exclusively to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and the applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported decisions concerning such laws, the laws of the State of Texas and the federal laws of the United States of America, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an Exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the references to us under "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. By giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ FULBRIGHT & JAWORSKI L.L.P.
Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P.


