FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20080514162257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (e) On March 4, 2008, the Board of Directors (Board) of EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) adopted the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (2008 Plan), subject to the approval of the stockholders of EOG. On May 8, 2008, at EOG's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders of EOG approved the 2008 Plan. The following is a summary of the principal provisions of the 2008 Plan. The following summary does not purport to be a complete description of the provisions of the 2008 Plan and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the 2008 Plan. The 2008 Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
General Terms
     Any employee or non-employee director of EOG is eligible to receive awards under the 2008 Plan. The 2008 Plan, which has a term of 10 years (unless terminated earlier), provides for awards of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), performance stock, performance units and other stock-based awards.
     The 2008 Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (Committee). The Committee will have exclusive authority to select and/or approve the participants to whom awards under the 2008 Plan may be granted and to determine the type, size and terms and conditions of each award, including, but not limited to, vesting terms and exercise and transferability restrictions.
     Subject to adjustment under the circumstances described in the 2008 Plan, the aggregate number of shares of EOG Common Stock authorized for grant under the 2008 Plan is 6,000,000. Moreover, the aggregate number of shares of EOG Common Stock granted under the 2008 Plan (i) as restricted stock, RSUs, performance stock, performance units or other stock-based awards cannot exceed 2,400,000, (ii) as incentive stock options cannot exceed 1,000,000 and (iii) as non-qualified stock options or SARs cannot exceed 6,000,000.
     Each share of EOG Common Stock that is subject to a grant counts as one share of Common Stock against the aggregate authorized number. Generally, if a grant awarded under the 2008 Plan is forfeited or cancelled for any reason, the shares allocable to the forfeited or cancelled portion of the grant may again be subject to a grant awarded under the 2008 Plan. If shares are delivered to satisfy the exercise price of any option grant or are used to exercise a SAR, those shares will not again be available under the 2008 Plan. If any shares are withheld to satisfy tax obligations associated with any grant, those shares will not again be available under the 2008 Plan.
     Grants awarded under the 2008 Plan are non-transferable by the recipient other than under a qualified domestic relations court order or by will or under the laws of descent and distribution, and are generally exercisable during the recipient's lifetime only by the recipient.
     The Committee has the right to terminate, suspend or amend the 2008 Plan and any grant agreement under the 2008 Plan at any time, provided, however, that no termination, suspension or amendment shall materially and adversely affect any grant previously awarded under the 2008 Plan
 
without the grant recipient's written consent. Moreover, the Committee may not amend the 2008 Plan without stockholder approval to the extent such approval is required by applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
     
Stock Options
     The provisions of the 2008 Plan specific to stock options are set forth in Article V of the 2008 Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1) and are incorporated herein by reference.
     Consistent with prior grants, EOG expects that stock options granted to its employees under the 2008 Plan will generally vest in 25% increments over four years and may not be exercised after the seventh anniversary of the date of grant. EOG's form of agreement for stock option grants to its employees, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference, sets forth the foregoing terms and the circumstances under which the unvested portion of a stock option grant will become 100% vested and also provides that (i) stock options may be exercised only by the grant recipient during the recipient's lifetime and while the recipient is employed by EOG, except under the circumstances described in the grant agreement; (ii) if the recipient's employment with EOG terminates for any reason other than under the circumstances described in the grant agreement, the stock option grant will be canceled on the date of termination of employment; (iii) to the extent that the exercise of a stock option results in taxable income to the recipient with respect to which EOG has a withholding obligation, EOG may withhold an amount sufficient to satisfy such withholding obligation; and (iv) a stock option grant (to the extent vested) may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates.
     
SARs
     The provisions of the 2008 Plan specific to SARs are set forth in Article VI of the 2008 Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1) and are incorporated herein by reference.
     Consistent with prior grants, EOG expects that SARs awarded to its employees under the 2008 Plan will be stock-settled SARs (i.e., settled, upon exercise, in shares of EOG Common Stock (net of any required tax withholding) in lieu of cash), will generally vest in 25% increments over four years and may not be exercised after the seventh anniversary of the date of grant. EOG's form of agreement for SAR grants to its employees, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference, sets forth the foregoing terms and the circumstances under which the unvested portion of a SAR grant will become 100% vested and also provides that (i) SARs may be exercised only by the grant recipient during the recipient's lifetime and while the recipient is employed by EOG, except under the circumstances described in the grant agreement; (ii) if the recipient's employment with EOG terminates for any reason other than under the circumstances described in the grant agreement, the SAR grant will be canceled on the date of termination of employment; (iii) to the extent that the exercise of a SAR results in taxable income to the recipient with respect to which EOG has a withholding obligation, EOG may withhold from the shares of EOG Common Stock subject to the SAR grant an amount sufficient to satisfy such withholding obligation; and (iv) a SAR grant (to the extent vested) may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates.
     EOG expects that SARs awarded to its non-employee directors under the 2008 Plan will be stock-settled SARs, will generally vest in 50% increments over two years and may not be exercised
 
after the seventh anniversary of the date of grant. EOG's form of agreement for SAR grants to its non-employee directors, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference, sets forth the foregoing terms and also provides that (i) SARs may be exercised only by the grant recipient during the recipient's lifetime and while the recipient remains a member of the Board, except under the circumstances described in the grant agreement; and (ii) a SAR grant (to the extent vested) may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates.
     
Restricted Stock and RSUs
     The provisions of the 2008 Plan specific to restricted stock and RSUs are set forth in Articles VII and VIII, respectively, of the 2008 Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1) and are incorporated herein by reference.
     Consistent with prior grants, EOG expects that restricted stock and RSUs awarded to its employees under the 2008 Plan will generally "cliff" vest five years from the date of grant. EOG's forms of agreements for restricted stock and RSU grants to its employees, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.5 and 10.6 (respectively) and incorporated herein by reference, set forth the foregoing vesting period and also provide that (i) if the grant recipient's employment with EOG does not continue until the five-year anniversary of the grant date, the grant of restricted stock or RSUs (as the case may be) will terminate and all shares of restricted stock or RSUs (as the case may be) awarded shall be forfeited and canceled, except as provided in the grant agreement; and (ii) the recipient will have voting rights with respect to the shares of EOG Common Stock represented by shares of restricted stock, but will have no voting rights with respect to the shares of EOG Common Stock represented by RSUs until such time as the shares of EOG Common Stock are issued to the recipient.
     EOG expects that restricted stock awarded to its non-employee directors under the 2008 Plan will generally "cliff" vest one year from the date of grant. EOG's form of agreement for restricted stock grants to its non-employee directors, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.7 and incorporated herein by reference, sets forth the foregoing vesting period and also provides that: (i) upon vesting of the restricted stock grant, 35% of the vested shares may be sold by the recipient to cover any tax obligation the recipient may incur as a result of the vesting and 65% of the vested shares must be held until the recipient no longer serves as a member of the Board; (ii) if the grant recipient's membership on the Board does not continue until the one-year anniversary of the grant date, the grant of restricted stock will terminate and all shares of restricted stock awarded shall be forfeited and canceled, except as provided in the grant agreement; and (iii) the recipient will have voting rights with respect to the shares of EOG Common Stock represented by shares of restricted stock.
     
Performance Stock Awards and Performance Unit Awards
     The provisions of the 2008 Plan specific to performance stock awards and performance unit awards are set forth in Article IX of the 2008 Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1) and are incorporated herein by reference. The Committee has not previously granted performance stock awards or performance unit awards under EOG's prior plans, but may grant such awards in the future, consistent with the provisions of the 2008 Plan.
 
     
Other Stock-Based Awards
     The provisions of the 2008 Plan specific to other stock-based awards are set forth in Article XI of the 2008 Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1) and are incorporated herein by reference. The Committee has not previously granted other stock-based awards under EOG's prior plans, but may grant such awards in the future, consistent with the provisions of the 2008 Plan.
     With the objective of enhancing the certainty of future revenues, from time to time EOG enters into New York Mercantile Exchange related financial commodity collar and price swap contracts. EOG accounts for these financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method. In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions. The financial impact of these physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.
     Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's natural gas financial price swap contracts as of May 13, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in million British thermal units per day (MMBtud) and prices in dollars per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu). In addition to the natural gas financial price swap contracts reported in EOG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 8, 2008, the below summary includes natural gas financial price swap contracts recently entered into by EOG covering notional volumes of 25,000 MMBtud for the period January 2009 through March 2009 and 50,000 MMBtud for the period April 2009 through December 2009. The average price of EOG's outstanding natural gas financial price swap contracts for 2008 is $8.52 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) and for 2009 is $8.99 per MMBtu.
 
     Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's crude oil financial price swap contracts as of May 13, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in barrels per day (Bbld) and prices in dollars per barrel ($/Bbl). EOG has not entered into any additional crude oil financial price swap contracts since EOG filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on May 8, 2008. The average price of EOG's outstanding crude oil financial price swap contracts is $92.19 per barrel.
 
     This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding EOG's future financial position, business strategy, budgets, reserve information, projected levels of production, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results, the ability to replace or increase reserves or to increase production, or the ability to generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others:
     In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and EOG undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     1.1 The Company hereby establishes an equity compensation plan, to be known as the "," as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, RSUs, Performance Stock Awards, Performance Unit Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards. The Plan will become effective as of the approval of the Plan by the Company's stockholders (the "").
Establishment.
EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan
Effective Date
     1.2 The purposes of the Plan are to encourage selected persons employed by the Company and its Affiliates and other eligible Persons to develop a proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company, to generate an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future success and prosperity, thus enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of its stockholders, and to enhance the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract and retain key individuals who are essential to the progress, growth and profitability of the Company.
Purposes of the Plan.
     1.3 Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the Effective Date. After the Plan is terminated, no Awards may be granted but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the Plan's terms and conditions.
Duration of Plan.
     The words and phrases defined in this Article shall have the meaning set out below throughout the Plan, unless the context in which any such word or phrase appears reasonably requires a broader, narrower or different meaning.
     2.1 "" means any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or association, trust or other entity or organization which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company. For purposes of the preceding sentence, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any entity or organization, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power (a) to vote more than fifty percent (50%) of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of the controlled entity or organization, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the controlled entity or organization, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
     2.2 "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, RSUs, Performance Stock Awards, Performance Unit Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards, in each case subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Award
     2.3 means an agreement that sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan.
"
Award Agreement
"
 
     2.4 "" or "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficial Ownership
     2.5 "" means the board of directors of the Company.
Board
     2.6 "" means any of the following events occurring after the Effective Date:
Change in Control of the Company
     (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, (the "") (a "") of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company (the ""), or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , , that for purposes of this subsection (a) of this Section 2.6, the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control of the Company: (1) any acquisition of shares of the Company directly from the Company, (2) any acquisition of shares of the Company by the Company, (3) any acquisition of shares of the Company by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, or (4) any acquisition of shares of the Company by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (1), (2) and (3) of subsection (c) of this Section 2.6; or
Exchange Act
Covered Person
Outstanding Company Common Stock
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
provided
however
     (b) Individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Covered Person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided
however
     (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or a disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a ""), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the Beneficial Owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, direct or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Covered Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the
Business Combination
 
Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board of Directors, providing for such Business Combination; or
     (d) The approval by the stockholders of the Company of the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     2.7 "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     2.8 "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee
     2.9 "" means EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor (by reincorporation, merger or otherwise).
Company
     2.10 "" shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 4.5(c).
Corporate Change
     2.11 "" means an Employee who is a "covered employee," as defined in section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations or other guidance promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service under section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor statute.
Covered Employee
     2.12 means a director of the Company who is not an Employee.
"
Director
"
     2.13 "" means any NQSO, SAR, or Full Value Award granted to a Director pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Board or Committee may establish in accordance with the Plan.
Director Award
     2.14 "" means, with respect to an Employee, such total and permanent disability as qualifies the Employee for benefits under the Company's long-term disability insurance policy or plan for Employees as then in effect for a period of not less than three months; or in the event that the Holder is not covered, for whatever reason, under the Company's long-term disability insurance policy or plan for Employees or in the event the Company does not maintain such a long-term disability insurance policy, "Disability" means the Holder is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. A determination of Disability may be made by a physician selected or approved by the Committee and, in this respect, the Holder shall submit to an examination by such physician upon request by the Committee.
Disability
     2.15 "" means a person employed by the Company or any Affiliate as a common law employee.
Employee
     2.16 "" of the Stock as of any particular date means (1) if the Stock is traded on a stock exchange, the closing sale price of the Stock on that date as reported on the principal securities exchange on which the Stock is traded, or (2) if the Stock is traded in the over-the-counter market, the average between the high bid and low asked price on that date as reported in such over-the-counter market; that (a) if no closing price or bid and asked prices for the stock was so reported on that date, the closing price or bid and asked prices for purposes of the foregoing shall be the closing price or bid and asked prices for the last business day immediately preceding that date for which there is a closing price or bid and asked prices for the stock or (b) if the Stock is not so traded or if, in the discretion of the Committee, another means of determining the fair market value of a share of Stock at such date shall be necessary or advisable, the Committee may provide for another method or means for determining such fair market value, which method or means shall comply with the requirements of a reasonable valuation method as described under Section 409A.
Fair Market Value
provided
 
     2.17 "" means the calendar year.
Fiscal Year
     2.18 "" means an Award other than in the form of an ISONQSO, or SAR, and which is settled by the issuance of shares of Stock.
Full Value Award
,
     2.19 "" means a person who has been granted an Award or any person who is entitled to receive shares of Stock or cash under an Award.
Holder
     2.20 "" or "" means an option to purchase Stock granted pursuant to Article V that is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and that is intended to satisfy the requirements of section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
ISO
     2.21 "" shall mean an individual who is, on the relevant date, an officer, a Director, or more than ten percent (10%) Beneficial Owner of any class of the Company's equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, as determined by the Board in accordance with Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Insider
     2.22 "" shall mean a Participant's Separation From Service at the election of the Company or Affiliate, that such separation is not Termination for Cause. Involuntary Termination shall not include transfer of assignment or location of a Participant where the Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate (or one of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies), both before and after the transfer, or continued employment with a successor employer immediately following a corporate reorganization or divestiture of assets or stock of the Company or an Affiliate.
Involuntary Termination
provided
     2.23 "" or "" means a "nonqualified stock option" to purchase Stock granted pursuant to Article V that does not satisfy the requirements of section 422 of the Code.
Nonqualified Stock Option
NQSO
     2.24 "" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.
Option
     2.25 "" shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 5.3.
Option Price
     2.26 "" means an equity-based or equity-related Award not otherwise described by the terms and provisions of the Plan that is granted pursuant to Article XI.
Other Stock-Based Award
     2.27 "" means any eligible person as set forth in Article III to whom an Award is granted.
Participant
     2.28 "" means compensation under an Award that satisfies the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code for deductibility of remuneration paid to Covered Employees.
Performance-Based Compensation
     2.29 "" means one or more of the criteria described in Section 9.2 on which the performance goals applicable to an Award are based.
Performance Goals
     2.30 "" means an Award designated as a performance stock award granted to a Holder pursuant to Article IX.
Performance Stock Award
     2.31 "" means an Award designated as a performance unit award granted to a Holder pursuant to Article IX.
Performance Unit Award
     2.32 "" means the period during which Restricted Stock is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (based on the passage of time, the achievement of Performance Goals, or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion), as provided in Article VII.
Period of Restriction
 
     2.33 "" means with respect to a particular action (such as, the grant, payment, vesting, settlement or deferral of an amount or Award under the Plan) that such action shall not subject the compensation at issue to be subject to the additional tax or interest applicable under Section 409A.
Permissible under Section 409A
     2.34 "" means the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, as set forth in this document as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
     2.35 "" means shares of restricted Stock issued or granted under the Plan pursuant to Article VII.
Restricted Stock
     2.36 "" means an authorization by the Committee to issue or transfer Restricted Stock to a Holder.
Restricted Stock Award
     2.37 "" means the Employee's Separation from Service after attainment of age 62 with at least five (5) years of service or as early as age 55 with at least five (5) years of service if such separation is approved by the Company.
Retirement
     2.38 "" means a restricted stock unit credited to a Holder's ledger account maintained by the Company pursuant to Article VIII.
RSU
     2.39 "" means an Award granted pursuant to Article VIII.
RSU Award
     2.40 means a stock appreciation right granted under the Plan pursuant to Article VI.
"
SAR
"
     2.41 means section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury rules and regulations issued thereunder.
"
Section 409A
"
     2.42 "" means the termination of the Award recipient's employment or service relationship with the Company and all Affiliates as determined under Section 409A.
Separation from Service
     2.43 "" means the common stock of the Company, $0.01 par value per share (or such other par value as may be designated by act of the Company's stockholders).
Stock
     2.44 shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 409A.
"
Substantial Risk of Forfeiture
"
     2.45 "" means an individual, who, at the time the applicable Option is granted, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Affiliate. An individual shall be considered as owning the stock owned, directly or indirectly, by or for his brothers and sisters (whether by the whole or half blood), spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants; and stock owned, directly or indirectly, by or for a corporation, partnership, estate, or trust, shall be considered as being owned proportionately by or for its stockholders, partners, or beneficiaries.
Ten Percent Stockholder
     2.46 "means a Participant's Separation from Service at the election of the Company or an Affiliate because of the Participant's (i) conviction of a felony (which, through lapse of time or otherwise, is not subject to appeal); or (ii) willful refusal without proper legal cause to perform the Participant's duties and responsibilities; or (iii) willfully engaging in conduct which the Participant has, or in the opinion of the Committee should have, reason to know is materially injurious to the Company or an Affiliate. Such separation shall be effected by notice thereof delivered by the Company or an Affiliate to the Participant and shall be effective as of the date stated in such notice; , that if (a) such separation is because of the Participant's willful refusal without proper cause to perform any one or more duties and responsibilities and
Termination for Cause"
provided, however
 
(b) within seven (7) days following the date of such notice the Participant shall cease such refusal and shall use all reasonable efforts to perform such obligations, the separation, if made, shall not be for cause."
     The persons who are eligible to receive Awards under the Plan are Employees and Directors. Directors are not eligible to receive ISO Awards.
     4.1 . The Committee may grant Awards to those Employees and Directors as the Committee shall from time to time determine, under the terms and conditions of the Plan. Subject only to any applicable limitations set out in the Plan, the number of shares of Stock or other value to be covered by any Award to be granted under the Plan shall be as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Authority to Grant Awards
     4.2
Dedicated Shares; Maximum Awards
.
     (a) .
Number of Shares of Stock Dedicated under the Plan for Awards
     (i) The aggregate number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan is 6,000,000.
     (ii) The aggregate number of shares of Stock with respect to which Full Value Awards may be granted under the Plan is 2,400,000.
     (iii) The aggregate number of shares with respect to which ISOs may be granted under the Plan is 1,000,000.
     (b) . Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits (each an "" and, collectively, "") shall apply to grants of such Awards under the Plan:
Annual Award Limits
Annual Award Limit
Annual Award Limits
     (i) The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Options may be granted to a Participant during a Fiscal Year is 500,000, plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit for Options as of the close of the previous Fiscal Year.
     (ii) The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which SARs may be granted to a Participant during a Fiscal Year is 500,000, plus the amount of the Participant's unused applicable Annual Award Limit for Options as of the close of the previous Fiscal Year.
     (iii) The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Performance Stock Awards may be granted to an Employee during a Fiscal Year is 50,000.
     (iv) The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Performance Unit Awards payable in Stock may be granted to an Employee during a Fiscal Year is 50,000.
     (c) .
Share Usage
 
     (i) Each of the foregoing numerical limits stated in Sections 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.5. The numbers of shares of Stock stated in this Section 4.2 shall also be increased by such number of shares of Stock as become subject to substitute Awards granted pursuant to Article XII; that such increase shall be conditioned upon the approval of the stockholders of the Company to the extent stockholder approval is required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or an Affiliate or with which the Company or an Affiliate combines has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by stockholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the shares of Stock authorized for grant under the Plan; , that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to Employees or Directors who would have been eligible to receive awards or grants under the pre-existing plan prior to such acquisition or combination.
provided, however,
provided
     (ii) Any shares of Stock that are subject to Awards shall be counted against these limits based on the maximum number of such shares that may be awarded under the Award; that any shares of Stock that are subject to Awards shall be counted against this limit as one (1) share of Stock for every one (1) share of Stock granted under the Award.
provided
     (iii) Any Awards that operate in tandem with (whether granted simultaneously with or at a different time from) other Awards may be counted or not counted under procedures adopted by the Committee in order to avoid double counting.
     (iv) If any shares of Stock covered by an Award, or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited, or if an Award otherwise expires or terminates without the issuance or delivery of shares of Stock or is settled in cash in lieu of shares of Stock, then, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration, termination, non-issuance or cash payment, the shares of Stock covered by such Award (or to which such Award relates, or the number of shares of Stock otherwise counted against the aggregate number of Shares available under the Plan with respect to such Award) shall not count against the aggregate number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan and shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
     (v) If shares of Stock are withheld from payment of an Award to satisfy tax obligations with respect to such Award or tendered in payment of an Option Price of an Option, such shares of Stock shall count against the aggregate number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan and shall not be available for Awards under the Plan. When a SAR is settled in shares of Stock, the number of shares of Stock subject to the SAR under the SAR Award Agreement will be counted against the aggregate number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan as one share for every share subject to the SAR, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise. The maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or Dividend Equivalents that are reinvested into additional shares of Stock or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, or Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
     (vi) Any shares of Stock that again become available for grant pursuant to this Section shall be added back as one (1) share of Stock.
     4.3 An Award shall not be transferable by the Holder other than in domestic relations court orders or by will or under the laws of descent and distribution or by designation, in a manner established by the Committee, of a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the Holder and to receive any property distributable with respect to any Award upon the death of the Holder, and shall be exercisable, during the Holder's lifetime, only by him or her (or his or her attorney in fact or guardian; in the case of a permitted transfer, by a permitted transferee; in the case of death, by the Holder's executor, administrator or beneficiary).
Non-Transferability
.
     4.4 The Company shall not be required to sell or issue any shares of Stock under any Award if issuing those shares of Stock would constitute or result in a violation by the Holder or the Company of any provision of any law, statute or regulation of any governmental authority. Specifically, in connection with any applicable statute or regulation relating to the registration of securities, upon exercise of any Option or pursuant to any other Award, the Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Stock unless the Committee has received evidence satisfactory to it to the effect that the Holder will not transfer the shares of Stock except in accordance with applicable law, including receipt of an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company to the effect that any proposed transfer complies with applicable law. The determination by the Committee on this matter shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Company may, but shall in no event be obligated to, register any shares of Stock covered by the Plan pursuant to applicable securities laws of any country or any political subdivision. In the event the shares of Stock issuable on exercise of an Option or pursuant to any other Award are not registered, the Company may imprint on the certificate evidencing the shares of Stock any legend that counsel for the Company considers necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law, or, should the shares of Stock be represented by book or electronic entry rather than a certificate, the Company may take such steps to restrict transfer of the shares of Stock as counsel for the Company considers necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law. The Company shall not be obligated to take any other affirmative action in order to cause or enable the exercise of an Option or any other Award, or the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant thereto, to comply with any law or regulation of any governmental authority.
Requirements of Law.
     4.5
Changes in the Company's Capital Structure.
     (a) The existence of outstanding Awards shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference shares ahead of or affecting the Stock or Stock rights, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
     (b) If the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of Stock or other capital readjustment, the payment of a Stock dividend, or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of Stock outstanding, without receiving compensation therefor in money, services or property, then (1) the number, class or series and per share price of Stock subject to outstanding Options or other Awards under the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted in such a manner as to entitle a Holder to receive upon exercise of an Option or other Award, for the same aggregate cash consideration, the equivalent total number and class or series of Stock the Holder would have received had the Holder exercised his or her Option or other Award in full immediately prior to the event requiring the adjustment, and (2) the number and class or series of Stock then reserved to be issued under the Plan shall be adjusted by substituting for the total number and class or series of Stock then reserved, that number and class or series of Stock that would
 
have been received by the owner of an equal number of outstanding shares of Stock of each class or series of Stock as the result of the event requiring the adjustment.
     (c) If while unexercised Options or other Awards remain outstanding under the Plan (1) the Company shall not be the surviving entity in any merger, consolidation or other reorganization (or survives only as a subsidiary of an entity other than an entity that was wholly-owned by the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization), (2) the Company sells, leases or exchanges or agrees to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of its assets to any other person or entity (other than an entity wholly-owned by the Company), (3) the Company is to be dissolved or (4) the Company is a party to any other corporate transaction (as defined under section 424(a) of the Code and applicable Department of Treasury regulations) that is not described in clauses (1), (2) or (3) of this sentence (each such event is referred to herein as a ""), then, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement or another agreement between the Holder and the Company (provided that such exceptions shall not apply in the case of a reincorporation merger), or as a result of the Committee's effectuation of one or more of the alternatives described below, there shall be no acceleration of the time at which any Award then outstanding may be exercised, and no later than ten days after the approval by the stockholders of the Company of such Corporate Change, the Committee, acting in its sole and absolute discretion without the consent or approval of any Holder, shall act to effect one or more of the following alternatives, which may vary among individual Holders and which may vary among Awards held by any individual Holder (provided that, with respect to a reincorporation merger in which Holders of the Company's ordinary shares will receive one ordinary share of the successor corporation for each ordinary share of the Company, none of such alternatives shall apply and, without Committee action, each Award shall automatically convert into a similar award of the successor corporation exercisable for the same number of ordinary shares of the successor as the Award was exercisable for ordinary shares of Stock of the Company):
Corporate Change
     (1) accelerate the time at which some or all of the Awards then outstanding may be exercised so that such Awards may be exercised in full for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Corporate Change) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all such Awards that remain unexercised and all rights of Holders thereunder shall terminate;
     (2) require the mandatory surrender to the Company by all or selected Holders of some or all of the then outstanding Awards held by such Holders (irrespective of whether such Awards are then exercisable under the provisions of the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement evidencing such Award) as of a date, before or after such Corporate Change, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Award and the Company shall pay to each such Holder an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the per share price offered to stockholders of the Company in connection with such Corporate Change over the exercise prices under such Award for such shares;
     (3) with respect to all or selected Holders, have some or all of their then outstanding Awards (whether vested or unvested) assumed or have a new award of a similar nature substituted for some or all of their then outstanding Awards under the Plan (whether vested or unvested) by an entity which is a party to the transaction resulting in such Corporate Change and which is then employing such Holder or which is affiliated or associated with such Holder in the same or a substantially similar manner as the Company prior to the Corporate Change, or a parent or subsidiary of such entity, provided that (A) such assumption or substitution is on a basis where the excess of the aggregate fair market value of the Stock subject to the Award immediately after the
 
assumption or substitution over the aggregate exercise price of such Stock is equal to the excess of the aggregate Fair Market Value of all Stock subject to the Award immediately before such assumption or substitution over the aggregate exercise price of such Stock, and (B) the assumed rights under such existing Award or the substituted rights under such new Award, as the case may be, will have the same terms and conditions as the rights under the existing Award assumed or substituted for, as the case may be;
     (4) provide that the number and class or series of Stock covered by an Award (whether vested or unvested) theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Award when exercised shall thereafter cover the number and class or series of Stock or other securities or property (including, without limitation, cash) to which the Holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement or plan relating to such Corporate Change if, immediately prior to such Corporate Change, the Holder had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Stock then covered by such Award; or
     (5) make such adjustments to Awards then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Corporate Change (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole and absolute discretion that no such adjustment is necessary to reflect such Corporate Change).
     Any adjustment effected by the Committee under Section 4.5 shall be designed to provide the Holder with the intrinsic value of his or her Award, as determined prior to the Corporate Change, or, if applicable, equalize the Fair Market Value of the Award before and after the Corporate Change.
     In effecting one or more of the alternatives set out in paragraphs (3), (4) or (5) immediately above, and except as otherwise may be provided in an Award Agreement, the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent or approval of any Holder, may accelerate the time at which some or all Awards then outstanding may be exercised.
     (d) In the event of changes in the outstanding Stock by reason of recapitalizations, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations, combinations, exchanges or other relevant changes in capitalization occurring after the date of the grant of any Award and not otherwise provided for by this Section 4.5, any outstanding Award and any Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall be subject to adjustment by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion as to the number and price of Stock or other consideration subject to such Award. In the event of any such change in the outstanding Stock, the aggregate number of shares of Stock available under the Plan may be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive.
     (e) After a merger of one or more corporations into the Company or after a consolidation of the Company and one or more corporations in which the Company shall be the surviving corporation, each Holder shall be entitled to have his Restricted Stock appropriately adjusted based on the manner in which the shares of Stock were adjusted under the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation.
     (f) The issuance by the Company of stock of any class or series, or securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, stock of any class or series, for cash or property, or for labor or services either upon direct sale or upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe for them, or upon conversion or exchange of stock or obligations of the Company convertible into, or exchangeable for, stock or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason of such issuance shall be made with respect to, the number, class or series, or price of shares of Stock then subject to outstanding Options or other Awards.
 
     4.6 Except as specified in an applicable Award Agreement, no Holder shall exercise the election permitted under section 83(b) of the Code with respect to any Award. Any Holder who makes an election under section 83(b) of the Code with respect to any Award, except as specified in an applicable Award Agreement, shall forfeit any or all Awards granted to him or her under the Plan.
Election Under Section 
83(b)
of the Code.
     4.7 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement, if a Participant Separates From Service based on a Termination for Cause, then as of the date of such separation, any Awards awarded to the Holder that have not been exercised by the Holder (including all Awards that have not yet vested) will be forfeited to the Company. The findings and decision of the Committee or the Board, if applicable, with respect to such matter, including those regarding the acts of the Holder and the damage done to the Company, will be final for all purposes. No decision of the Committee, however, will affect the finality of the discharge of the individual by the Company or an Affiliate.
Forfeiture for Termination for Cause.
     4.8 The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Holder's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, Termination for Cause, termination of the Holder's provision of services to the Company or its Affiliates, violation of material policies of the Company and its Affiliates, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality, or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Holder, or other conduct by the Holder that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company and its Affiliates.
Forfeiture Events.
     4.9 . Each Award shall be embodied in a written or electronic agreement that shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Award Agreement shall be in such form as determined by the Committee, and a Holder may be required to sign the Award Agreement to the extent the Committee determines, in its sole discretion. The Award Agreement may contain any other provisions that the Committee in its discretion shall deem advisable which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Award Agreements
     4.10 The terms of any outstanding Award under the Plan may be amended from time to time by the Committee in its discretion in any manner that it deems appropriate and that is consistent with the terms of the Plan. However, no such amendment shall adversely affect in a material manner any right of a Holder without his or her written consent. Except as specified in Section 4.5(b), the Committee may not directly or indirectly lower the exercise price of a previously granted Option or the grant price of a previously granted SAR.
Amendments of Award Agreements.
     4.11 A Holder shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to Stock covered by an Option, a SAR, an RSU, a Performance Stock Unit, or an Other Stock-Based Award until the date, if any, such Stock is issued by the Company; and, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5, no adjustment for dividends, or otherwise, shall be made if the record date therefor is prior to the date of issuance of such Stock.
Rights as Stockholder.
     4.12 Shares of Stock, when issued, may be represented by a certificate or by book or electronic entry.
Issuance of Shares of Stock.
     4.13 The Committee may impose such conditions and/or restrictions on any shares of Stock issued pursuant to an Award as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Holder hold the shares of Stock for a specified period of time.
Restrictions on Stock Received.
     4.14 Awards shall be designed and operated in such a manner that they are either exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A. The Plan and
Compliance With Section 409A.
 
each Award Agreement under the Plan is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an Award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A the Award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral shall not be subject to the additional tax or interest applicable under Section 409A. In addition, to the extent an Award is subject to Section 409A, a Holder's payment under such an Award shall be made at such time as is specified in the applicable Award Agreement. The Award Agreement shall specify that the payment will be made (1) by a date that is no later than the date that is two and one-half (2 1/2) months after the end of the Fiscal Year in which the Award payment is no longer subject to a Substantial Risk of Forfeiture or (2) at a time that is Permissible under Section 409A.
     4.15 . The date on which an Option or SAR is granted shall be the date the Company completes the corporate action constituting an offer of stock for sale to an individual Holder under the terms and conditions of the Option or SAR; that such corporate action shall not be considered complete until the date on which the number of shares that can be purchased under the Option granted to such Holder and the minimum Option price are fixed or determinable. If the corporate action contemplates an immediate offer of stock for sale to a class of individuals, then the date of the granting of an Option is the time or date of that corporate action, if the offer is to be made immediately. If the corporate action contemplates a particular date on which the offer is to be made, then the date of grant is the contemplated date of the offer.
Date of Grant
provided
maximum
     4.16 Awards, in the discretion of the Committee, may be granted either alone or in addition to, or in tandem with any other Award or any Award granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards, or in addition to or in tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate, may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Award or Awards.
Awards May Be Granted Separately or Together
.
     5.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time, and from time to time, may grant Options under the Plan to eligible persons in such number and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine; that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as permitted by section 422 of the Code and the regulations thereunder).
Authority to Grant Options.
provided
     5.2 Each Option grant under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify (a) the Option Price, (b) the duration of the Option, (c) the number of shares of Stock to which the Option pertains, (d) the exercise restrictions, if any, applicable to the Option and (e) such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO.
Option Agreement.
     5.3 The price at which shares of Stock may be purchased under an Option (the "") shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock on the date the Option is granted; , if the Option is an ISO granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder, the Option Price must not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock on the date of grant. Subject to the limitations set forth in the preceding sentences of this Section 5.3, the Committee shall determine the Option Price for each grant of an Option under the Plan.
Option Price.
Option Price
provided, however
 
     5.4 An Option shall not be exercisable after the earlier of (i) the general term of the Option specified in the applicable Award Agreement (which shall not exceed seven years, or, in the case of a Ten Percent Stockholder, no ISO shall be exercisable later than the fifth (5) anniversary of the date of its grant) or (ii) the period of time specified in the applicable Award Agreement that follows the Holder's Separation from Service.
Duration of Option.
th
     5.5 Each Option may be exercised at the time, in the manner and subject to the conditions the Committee specifies in the Award Agreement in its sole discretion.
Amount Exercisable.
     5.6
Exercise of Option.
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, Options may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time by the delivery of written, telephonic, or electronic notice or in such other manner or means as determined by the Committee. Unless the Committee specifies otherwise, Options may be exercised through a broker financed exercise pursuant to the provisions of Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board ("Cashless Exercise").
General Method of Exercise
     (b) . Except in the case of a Cashless Exercise, no shares of Stock shall be issued upon the exercise of an Option until there has been a payment of the Option Price and any applicable withholding to the Company by any combination of the following: (a) cash, certified check, bank draft or postal or express money order for an amount equal to the Option Price under the Option, (b) shares of Stock that have been owned or deemed owned by the Holder for over six (6) months (provided that the use of such shares shall not be permitted if it would result in an earnings charge to the Company); or (c) any other form of payment which is acceptable to the Committee.
Form of Payment
     5.7 . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, no ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and all ISOs granted to an Employee under this Article V shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Employee.
TransferabilityIncentive Stock Options
     5.8 . If any Employee shall make any disposition of shares of Stock issued pursuant to the exercise of an ISO under the circumstances described in section 421(b) of the Code (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Employee shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten (10) days thereof.
Notification of Disqualifying Disposition
     5.9 . To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Stock with respect to which ISOs first become exercisable by a Holder in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, taking into account both shares of Stock subject to ISOs under the Plan and Stock subject to ISOs under all other plans of the Company, such Options shall be treated as NQSOs. For this purpose, the "Fair Market Value" of the shares of Stock subject to Options shall be determined as of the date the Options were awarded. In reducing the number of Options treated as ISOs to meet the $100,000 limit, the most recently granted Options shall be reduced first. To the extent a reduction of simultaneously granted Options is necessary to meet the $100,000 limit, the Committee may, in the manner and to the extent permitted by law, designate which shares of Stock are to be treated as shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an ISO.
$100,000 Limitation on ISOs
     5.10 Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Holder of an Option shall have the right to exercise the Option following the Holder's Separation from Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Options
Separation from Service.
 
issued pursuant to the Award Agreement or the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for the separation.
     6.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time, and from time to time, may grant SARs under the Plan to eligible persons in such number and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Holder and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
Authority to Grant SAR Awards.
     6.2 Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a SAR granted under the Plan shall confer on the recipient a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise over (b) the grant price of the SAR, which shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of grant of the SAR.
General Terms.
     6.3 Each Award of SARs granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify (a) the grant price of the SAR, (b) the term of the SAR, (c) the vesting and termination provisions of the SAR and (d) such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan. The Committee may impose such additional conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any SAR as it may deem appropriate.
SAR Agreement.
     6.4 The term of a SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided that no SAR shall be exercisable on or after the seventh anniversary date of its grant. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a SAR that is granted in connection with an ISO: (a) the SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the underlying ISO at the time the SAR is exercised over the Option Price of the underlying ISO; and (c) the SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.
Term of SAR.
     6.5 A SAR may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
Exercise of SAR.
     6.6 Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Holder shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over the grant price of the SAR by the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR is exercised. At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon the exercise of a SAR may be in cash, in Stock of equivalent value, in some combination thereof or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
Payment of SAR Amount.
     6.7 Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Holder of a SAR shall have the right to exercise the SAR following the Holder's Separation from Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all SARs
Separation from Service.
 
issued pursuant to the Award Agreement or the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for the separation.
     7.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time, and from time to time, may grant Awards of Restricted Stock under the Plan to eligible persons in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine. The amount of, the vesting and the transferability restrictions applicable to any Restricted Stock Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. If the Committee imposes vesting or transferability restrictions on a Holder's rights with respect to Restricted Stock, the Committee may issue such instructions to the Company's share transfer agent in connection therewith as it deems appropriate. The Committee may also cause the certificate for shares of Stock issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award to be imprinted with any legend which counsel for the Company considers advisable with respect to the restrictions or, should the shares of Stock be represented by book or electronic entry rather than a certificate, the Company may take such steps to restrict transfer of the shares of Stock as counsel for the Company considers necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law.
Authority to Grant Restricted Stock Awards
.
     7.2 Each Restricted Stock Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that contains any vesting, transferability restrictions and other provisions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee may specify.
Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
     7.3 Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, each recipient of a Restricted Stock Award shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock included in the Restricted Stock Award during the Period of Restriction established for the Restricted Stock Award, including, without limitation, the right to vote such Shares of Restricted Stock.
Holder's Rights as Stockholder.
     7.4 Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which Restricted Stock Awards shall vest or be forfeited upon the Holder's Separation from Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Restricted Stock Awards issued pursuant to the Award Agreement or the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for separation.
Separation from Service.
     7.5 . All dividends and distributions, or the cash equivalent thereof (whether cash, stock or otherwise), on unvested shares of Restricted Stock shall not be paid to the Holder of such shares but the value thereof shall be credited by the Company for the benefit of the Holder. At such time as vested shares are delivered to the Holder, all accumulated credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof attributable to such vested shares shall be paid to the Holder. Interest shall not be paid on any such credits for dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company for the benefit of a Holder. The Company shall have the option of paying such credits for accumulated dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof in shares of Stock rather than in cash or other medium. (If payment is made in Stock, the conversion to Stocks shall be at the average Fair Market Value for the five (5) trading days preceding the date of payment.) Credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company on non-vested Restricted Stock shall be forfeited in the same manner and at the same time as the respective shares of Restricted Stock to which they are attributable are forfeited, except that such forfeited credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof shall be canceled and shall not be available for future distribution under the Plan.
Dividends
 
     8.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time, and from time to time, may grant RSU Awards under the Plan to eligible persons in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine. The amount of, the vesting and the transferability restrictions applicable to any RSU Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall maintain a bookkeeping ledger account which reflects the number of RSUs credited under the Plan for the benefit of a Holder.
Authority to Grant RSU Awards.
     8.2 An RSU Award shall be similar in nature to a Restricted Stock Award except that no shares of Stock are actually transferred to the Holder until a later date specified in the applicable Award Agreement. On the date of settlement, each RSU shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such date.
RSU Award.
     8.3 Each RSU Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that contains any Substantial Risk of Forfeiture, transferability restrictions, form and time of payment provisions and other provisions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee may specify.
RSU Award Agreement.
     8.4 Payment under an RSU Award shall be made in either cash or shares of Stock as specified in the applicable Award Agreement.
Form of Payment Under RSU Award.
     8.5 Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which RSU Awards shall vest or be forfeited upon the Holder's Separation from Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all RSU Awards issued pursuant to the Award Agreement or the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for separation.
Separation from Service.
     8.6 . All dividends and distributions, or the cash equivalent thereof (whether cash, stock or otherwise), on unvested RSU Awards shall not be paid to the Holder of such RSU Award but the value thereof shall be credited by the Company for the benefit of the Holder. At such time as vested shares are delivered to the Holder, all accumulated credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof attributable to such vested shares shall be paid to the Holder. Interest shall not be paid on any such credits for dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company for the benefit of a Holder. The Company shall have the option of paying such credits for accumulated dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof in shares of Stock rather than in cash or other medium. (If payment is made in Stock, the conversion to Stock shall be at the average Fair Market Value for the five (5) trading days preceding the date of payment.) Credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company on non-vested Restricted Stock shall be forfeited in the same manner and at the same time as the respective shares of Restricted Stock to which they are attributable are forfeited, except that such forfeited credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof shall be canceled and shall not be available for future distribution under the Plan.
Dividends
     9.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time, and from time to time, may grant Performance Stock Awards and Performance Unit Awards under the Plan to eligible persons in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine. The amount of, the vesting and the transferability restrictions applicable
Authority to Grant Performance Stock Awards and Performance Unit Awards.
 
to any Performance Stock Award or Performance Unit Award shall be based upon the attainment of such Performance Goals as the Committee may determine. If the Committee imposes vesting or transferability restrictions on a Holder's rights with respect to Performance Stock or Performance Unit Awards, the Committee may issue such instructions to the Company's share transfer agent in connection therewith as it deems appropriate. The Committee may also cause the certificate for shares of Stock issued pursuant to a Performance Stock or Performance Unit Award to be imprinted with any legend which counsel for the Company considers advisable with respect to the restrictions or, should the shares of Stock be represented by book or electronic entry rather than a certificate, the Company may take such steps to restrict transfer of the shares of Stock as counsel for the Company considers necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law.
     9.2 Unless and until the Committee proposes for stockholder vote and the stockholders approve a change in the general Performance Goals set forth in this Article IX, the Performance Goals upon which the issuance, payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to one or more of the following Performance Goals, which may be based on one or more business criteria that apply to the Holder, one or more business units of the Company, or the Company as a whole: total stockholder return, increased revenue, net income, earnings per share, stock price, market share, return on capital employed, return on equity, return on assets, operating income, earnings before interest and taxes, cash flow, cash flow from operations, unit costs, cost reductions, production volume growth, reserve replacement ratio, finding costs, and/or debt-to-total capitalization ratio. Goals may also be based on performance relative to a peer group of companies.
Performance Goals.
     Unless otherwise stated, such a Performance Goal need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a particular business criterion and could include, for example, maintaining the status quo or limiting economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to specific business criteria). In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to Performance Goals and Performance Stock or Performance Unit Awards, it is intended that the Plan will conform with the standards of section 162(m) of the Code and Treasury Regulations  1.162-27(e)(2)(i), and the Committee in establishing such goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such provisions. Prior to the payment of any compensation based on the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee must certify in writing that applicable Performance Goals and any of the material terms thereof were, in fact, satisfied. Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any Performance Stock or Performance Unit Awards made pursuant to the Plan shall be determined by the Committee.
     9.3 With respect to a Covered Employee, a Performance Goal for a particular Performance Stock Award or Performance Unit Award must be established by the Committee prior to the earlier to occur of (a) 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the Performance Goal relates or (b) the lapse of 25 percent of the period of service, and in any event while the outcome is substantially uncertain.
Time of Establishment of Performance Goals.
     9.4 Each Performance Stock Award or Performance Unit Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that contains any vesting, transferability restrictions and other provisions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee may specify.
Written Agreement.
     9.5 Payment under a Performance Unit Award shall be made in cash and/or shares of Stock as specified in the Holder's Award Agreement.
Form of Payment Under Performance Unit Award.
     9.6 Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan or as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, each Holder of a Performance Stock Award shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares of Stock issued to the Holder pursuant to the Award during any period in which such issued shares of Stock are subject to forfeiture and restrictions on transfer, including without limitation, the right to vote such shares of Stock.
Holder's Rights as Stockholder With Respect to a Performance Stock Award
.
 
     9.7 None of the Committee or the Board may increase the amount of compensation payable under a Performance Stock or Performance Unit Award. If the time at which a Performance Stock or Performance Unit Award will vest or be paid is accelerated for any reason, the number of shares of Stock subject to, or the amount payable under, the Performance Stock or Performance Unit Award shall be reduced pursuant to Department of Treasury Regulation section 1.162-27(e)(2)(iii) to reasonably reflect the time value of money.
Increases Prohibited.
     9.8 No payments of Stock or cash will be made to a Covered Employee pursuant to this Article IX unless the stockholder approval requirements of Department of Treasury Regulation section 1.162-27(e)(4) are satisfied.
Stockholder Approval.
     9.9 . All dividends and distributions, or the cash equivalent thereof (whether cash, stock or otherwise), on unvested shares of Performance Stock and Performance Units shall not be paid to the Holder of such shares but the value thereof shall be credited by the Company for the benefit of the Holder. At such time as vested shares are delivered to the Holder, all accumulated credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof attributable to such vested shares shall be paid to the Holder. Interest shall not be paid on any such credits for dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company for the benefit of a Holder. The Company shall have the option of paying such credits for accumulated dividends or distributions or the cash equivalent thereof in shares of Stock rather than in cash or other medium. (If payment is made in Stock, the conversion to Stocks shall be at the average Fair Market Value for the five (5) trading days preceding the date of payment.) Credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof made by the Company on non-vested Performance Stock or Performance Unit Award shall be forfeited in the same manner and at the same time as the respective shares of Performance Stock or Performance Units to which they are attributable are forfeited, except that such forfeited credits for the value of dividends and distributions or the cash equivalent thereof shall be canceled and shall not be available for future distribution under the Plan.
Dividends
     9.10 . The issuance of shares of Performance Stock or Performance Units under the Plan may also be in lieu of cash payments under the Company's Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan, based upon attainment of the performance criteria established under the terms of the Company's Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan.
Company's Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan
     All Awards to Directors shall be determined by the Board or Committee.
     11.1 . The Committee may grant to eligible persons other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms and provisions of the Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Stock) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual shares of Sock to Holders, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of shares of Stock and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
Authority to Grant Other Stock-Based Awards
     11.2 . Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Stock or units based on shares of Stock, as determined by the Committee.
Value of Other Stock-Based Award
 
     11.3 . Payment, if any, with respect to an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or shares of Stock as the Committee determines.
Payment of Other Stock-Based Award
     11.4 . The Committee shall determine the extent to which a Holder's rights with respect to Other Stock-Based Awards shall be affected by the Holder's Separation from Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee and need not be uniform among all Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan.
Separation from Service
     Awards may be granted under the Plan from time to time in substitution for stock options and other awards held by employees of other entities who are about to become Employees, or whose employer is about to become an Affiliate as the result of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation, or the acquisition by the Company of substantially all the assets of another corporation, or the acquisition by the Company of at least fifty percent (50%) of the issued and outstanding stock of another corporation as the result of which such other corporation will become an Affiliate. The terms and conditions of the substitute Awards so granted may vary from the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan to such extent as the Board at the time of grant may deem appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the Award in substitution for which they are granted.
     13.1 . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under applicable laws or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or national securities exchanges, or unless the Committee shall determine otherwise in the Award Agreement:
Change in Control of the Company
     (a) Any and all Options and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately vested and exercisable upon the date (a) a press release is issued announcing a pending shareholder vote or other transaction which, if approved or consummated, would constitute a Change of Control, or (b) a tender offer or exchange is publicly announced or commenced which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control;
     (b) any Period of Restriction and restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall lapse upon the date (a) a press release is issued announcing a pending shareholder vote or other transaction which, if approved or consummated, would constitute a Change of Control, or (b) a tender offer or exchange is publicly announced or commenced which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control;
     (c) the target payout opportunities attainable under all outstanding Awards of Performance Stock and Performance Units shall be deemed to have been fully earned based on targeted performance being attained as of the effective date of the Change in Control of the Company;
          (i) The vesting of all Awards denominated in shares of Stock shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the Change in Control of the Company, and shall be paid out to Participants within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change in Control of the
 
          Company. The Committee has the authority to pay all or any portion of the value of the shares of stock in cash;
          (ii) Awards denominated in cash shall be paid to Participants in cash within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change in Control of the Company; and
     (d) unless otherwise specifically provided in a written agreement entered into between the Participant and the Company, the Committee shall pay out all Other Stock-Based Awards.
     (e) Subject to the acceleration of vesting of outstanding Options, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide that in the event of a Change in Control of the Company pursuant to Section 2.6(b) or (c), no later than ten (10) days after the approval by the stockholders of the Company of such merger, consolidation, reorganization, sale, lease, or exchange or assets or dissolution or such election of directors, or in the event of a Change in Control of the Company pursuant to Section 2.6(a), no later than thirty (30) days after the occurrence of such Change in Control of the Company, that (i) Options may be exercised in full only for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Change in Control of the Company) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all unexercised Options and all rights of the Participants thereunder shall terminate, or (ii) require the mandatory surrender to the Company by selected Participants of some or all of the outstanding Options held by such Participants as of a date, before or after such Change in Control of the Company, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Options and the Company shall pay to each Participant an amount of cash per share of stock equal to the excess, if any of the "" of the shares of stock subject to such Option over the Option Price(s) under such Options for such shares of stock.
Change in Control of the Company Value
     For the purpose of this Section 13.1(e), "" shall equal the amount determined in clause (i), (ii), or (iii), whichever is applicable, as follows: (i) the per share price of the Stock offered to stockholders of the Company in any such merger, consolidation, reorganization, sale of assets, or dissolution transaction, (ii) the per share price of the Stock offered to stockholders of the Company in any tender offer or exchange offer whereby a Change in Control of the Company takes place, or (iii) if such Change in Control of the Company occurs other than pursuant to a tender or exchange offer, the Fair Market Value per share of the shares in which such Options being surrendered are exercisable, as determined by the Committee as of the date determined by the Committee to be the date of cancellation and surrender of such Options. In the event that the consideration offered to stockholders of the Company in any transaction consists of anything other than cash, the Committee shall determine the fair cash equivalent of the portion of the consideration offered which is other than cash.
Change in Control of the Company Value
     13.2 . Notwithstanding Section 16.1, if a payment under an Award Agreement is subject to Section 409A and if the Change of Control definition contained in the Award Agreement does not comply with the definition of "change of control" for purposes of a distribution under Section 409A, then any payment of an amount that is otherwise accelerated under this Article shall be delayed until the earliest time that such payment would be Permissible under Section 409A.
Delay of Payment due to Section 409A
     14.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee or, in the absence of the Committee, the Plan shall be administered by the Board. The members of the Committee shall serve at the discretion of the Board. The Committee shall have full and exclusive power and authority to administer the Plan and to take all
Awards.
 
actions that the Plan expressly contemplates or are necessary or appropriate in connection with the administration of the Plan with respect to Awards granted under the Plan.
     14.2 The Committee shall have full and exclusive power to interpret and apply the terms and provisions of the Plan and Awards made under the Plan, and to adopt such rules, regulations and guidelines for implementing the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper, all of which powers shall be exercised in the best interests of the Company and in keeping with the objectives of the Plan. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business relating to the Plan or Awards made under the Plan, and the vote of a majority of those members present at any meeting shall decide any question brought before that meeting. Any decision or determination reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be as effective as if it had been made by a majority vote at a meeting properly called and held. All questions of interpretation and application of the Plan, or as to Awards granted under the Plan, shall be subject to the determination, which shall be final and binding, of a majority of the whole Committee. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee or for any act or omission on his own part, including but not limited to the exercise of any power or discretion given to him under the Plan, except those resulting from his own gross negligence or willful misconduct. In carrying out its authority under the Plan, the Committee shall have full and final authority and discretion, including but not limited to the following rights, powers and authorities to (a) determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Awards will be made; (b) determine the number and exercise price, if any, of shares of Stock covered in each Award subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan; (c) determine the terms, provisions and conditions of each Award, which need not be identical and need not match the default terms set forth in the Plan; (d) determine whether, to what extent, under what circumstances and how Awards may be canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (e) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Holder thereof or of the Committee; (f) accelerate the time at which any outstanding Award will vest; (g) interpret, construe and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to an Award made under the Plan; (h) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to administration of the Plan; (i) make a determination as to the right of any person to receive payment of an Award or other benefit; and (j) make all other determinations and take all other actions deemed necessary, appropriate or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan.
Authority of the Committee.
     The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award to a Holder in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable to further the Plan's objectives. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations that may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. As permitted by law and the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company, and/or its Affiliates or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees or Directors to be recipients of Awards and (b) determine the size of any such Awards; , (i) the Committee shall not delegate such responsibilities to any such officer for Awards granted to an Employee that is considered an Insider; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization sets forth the total number of Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other persons, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Board shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons.
provided, however
 
     14.3 All determinations and decisions made by the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its Affiliates, its stockholders, Holders and the estates and beneficiaries of Holders.
Decisions Binding.
     14.4 Under no circumstances shall the Company, its Affiliates, the Board or the Committee incur liability for any indirect, incidental, consequential or special damages (including lost profits) of any form incurred by any person, whether or not foreseeable and regardless of the form of the act in which such a claim may be brought, with respect to the Plan or the Company's, its Affiliates', the Committee's or the Board's roles in connection with the Plan.
No Liability.
     15.1 . Subject to Section 15.2, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; , that, no amendment of the Plan shall be made without the approval of the Company's stockholders if such stockholder approval is required by applicable law or stock exchange rules and, except as provided in Section 4.5, without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders, the Committee shall not directly or indirectly lower the Option Price of a previously granted Option, (b) cancel an Option when the Option Price exceeds the Fair Market Value of the underlying shares of Stock in exchange for another Award (other than in connection with substitute Awards) or (c) take any other action with respect to an Option that may be treated as a "repricing" under the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other principal national securities exchange on which the Company is then listed).
Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
provided, however
     15.2 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Holder holding such Award.
Awards Previously Granted
     16.1 Holders shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or any of its Affiliates may make to aid in meeting obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Holder, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts, except as expressly set forth in the Plan. No property shall be set aside nor shall a trust fund of any kind be established to secure the rights of any Holder under the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Unfunded Plan/No Establishment of a Trust Fund.
     16.2 The granting of any Award shall not constitute an employment contract, express or implied, nor impose upon the Company or any Affiliate any obligation to employ or continue to employ, or utilize the services of, any Holder. The right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment of any person shall not be diminished or affected by reason of the fact that an Award has been
No Employment Obligation.
 
granted to him, and nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or its Affiliates to terminate any Holder's employment at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law.
     16.3 The Company or any Affiliate shall be entitled to deduct from other compensation payable to each Holder any sums required by federal, state, local or foreign tax law to be withheld with respect to the vesting or exercise of an Award or lapse of restrictions on an Award. In the alternative, the Company may require the Holder (or other person validly exercising the Award) to pay such sums for taxes directly to the Company or any Affiliate in cash or by check within one day after the date of vesting, exercise or lapse of restrictions. In the discretion of the Committee, and with the consent of the Holder, the Company may reduce the number of shares of Stock issued to the Holder upon such Holder's exercise of an Option to satisfy the tax withholding obligations of the Company or an Affiliate. At the request of a Holder, the Company may, in its discretion, withhold amounts in excess of the statutory minimum withholding obligation if permitted by applicable law and to the extent such withholding does not result in adverse accounting treatment.
Tax Withholding.
     The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Holder to satisfy any statutory tax withholding obligation arising upon the vesting of an Award by delivering to the Holder a reduced number of shares of Stock in the manner specified herein. If permitted by the Committee and acceptable to the Holder, at the time of vesting of shares under the Award, the Company shall (a) calculate the amount of the Company's or an Affiliate's statutory tax withholding obligation on the assumption that all such shares of Stock vested under the Award are made available for delivery, (b) reduce the number of such shares of Stock made available for delivery so that the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock withheld on the vesting date approximates the Company's or an Affiliate's statutory tax withholding obligation and (c) in lieu of the withheld shares of Stock, remit cash to the United States Treasury and/or other applicable governmental authorities, on behalf of the Holder, in the amount of the statutory tax withholding obligation. The Company shall withhold only whole shares of Stock to satisfy its statutory tax withholding obligation. The withheld shares of Stock not made available for delivery by the Company shall be retained as treasury shares or will be cancelled and the Holder's right, title and interest in such shares of Stock shall terminate.
     The Company shall have no obligation upon vesting or exercise of any Award or lapse of restrictions on an Award until the Company or an Affiliate has received payment sufficient to cover the statutory tax withholding obligation with respect to that vesting, exercise or lapse of restrictions. Neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall be obligated to advise a Holder of the existence of the tax or the amount which it will be required to withhold.
     16.4 If the context requires, words of one gender when used in the Plan shall include the other and words used in the singular or plural shall include the other.
Gender and Number.
     16.5 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
     16.6 Headings of Articles and Sections are included for convenience of reference only and do not constitute part of the Plan and shall not be used in construing the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Headings.
     16.7 The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other option, incentive or other compensation or benefit plans in effect for the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall the Plan preclude the Company from establishing any other forms of incentive compensation arrangements for Employees and Directors.
Other Compensation Plans.
 
     16.8 . Neither Awards made under the Plan nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a participant's benefit.
Retirement and Welfare Plans
     16.9 The grant of an Award shall not confer upon the Holder the right to receive any future or other Awards under the Plan, whether or not Awards may be granted to similarly situated Holders, or the right to receive future Awards upon the same terms or conditions as previously granted.
Other Awards.
     16.10 All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors.
     16.11 . The granting of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Law Limitations/Governmental Approvals
     16.12 . The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for shares of Stock issued under the Plan prior to (a) obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and (b) completion of any registration or other qualification of the Stock under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable.
Delivery of Title
     16.13 . The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Stock hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares of Stock as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Inability to Obtain Authority
     16.14 . The Committee may require any person receiving Stock pursuant to an Award under the Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the person is acquiring the shares of Stock for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Stock.
Investment Representations
     16.15 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company or any of its Affiliates operates or has Employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to (a) determine which Affiliates shall be covered by the Plan; (b) determine which persons employed outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan; (c) amend or vary the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted to persons who reside outside the United States; (d) establish subplans and modify exercise procedures and other terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable  any subplans and modifications to Plan terms and procedures established under this Section 16.15 by the Committee shall be attached to the Plan document as Appendices; and (e) take any action, before or after an Award is made, that it deems advisable to obtain or comply with any necessary local government regulatory exemptions or approvals. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Code, any securities law or governing statute or any other applicable law.
Persons Residing Outside of the United States.
     16.16 Any controversy arising out of or relating to the Plan or an Award Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration conducted pursuant to the arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties.
Arbitration of Disputes.
 
     16.17 The provisions of the Plan and the rights of all persons claiming thereunder shall be construed, administered and governed under the laws of the State of Texas, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Texas, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any related Award Agreement.
Governing Law.
     16.18 . The Plan shall serve as the successor to the Company's Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Option Plan, the Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Plan and the Amended and Restated 1993 Nonemployee Directors Stock Option Plan (the "Prior Plans") and no further grants shall be made under the Prior Plans from and after the Effective Date of the Plan, except for awards with respect to shares of Stock which by reason of the terms of the Prior Plans are again made available for grant due to the forfeiture or cancellation of awards outstanding as of the Effective Date. All outstanding awards under the Prior Plans shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of the instrument evidencing such grant or issuance. Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, no provision of the Plan is intended to modify, extend or renew any awards granted under the Prior Plans. Any provision in the Plan that is contrary to a provision in the Prior Plans that would create a modification, extension or renewal of such award is hereby incorporated into the Plan. All terms, conditions and limitations, if any, that are set forth in any previously granted award agreement shall remain in full force and effect under the terms of the respective plan pursuant to which it was issued.
Prior Plans

Exhibit 10.2
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
GRANTEE: [NAME] [EMPLOYEE ID]
Congratulations! You have been granted Options to purchase shares of $0.01 par value common stock of EOG Resources, Inc. ("Stock") as follows:
This Grant of Options is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Grant Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a Grant of Options that is exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule and terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous employment with the Company or an Affiliate, this Grant of Options will become vested in 25% increments beginning one year from the Date of Grant and on each of the next three anniversaries of the Date of Grant and will be exercisable after vesting until canceled as noted in the paragraphs below. To the extent vested, this Grant of Options may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates. To the extent that the exercise of the Grant of Options results in income to you for federal, state or local income, employment or other tax purposes with respect to which the Company or an Affiliate has a withholding obligation, the Company or Affiliate is authorized to withhold any tax required to be withheld by reason of such taxable income, sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation.
You must exercise this Grant of Options through the Company's designated broker, UBS Financial Services, Inc. ("UBS") by accessing its website at [          ] or by calling [         ]. You will be notified if the designated broker is changed. If you have been notified that you must consult with a member of the Company's Legal Department prior to engaging in Stock transactions, you must consult with the Legal Department prior to exercising this Grant of Options.
If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, or Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, the unvested portion of the Grant of Options shall become 100% vested on the date of such event. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company (which shall include your entering into a six-month non-competition agreement with the Company), the unvested portion of this Grant of Options shall become 100% vested six months following the effective date of such Retirement, that all provisions of the non-competition agreement are satisfied. Upon a Change in Control of the Company, the unvested portion of this Grant of Options shall become 100% vested as described in Article XIII of the Plan.
provided
This Grant of Options is not transferable by you other than pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Plan, and may be exercised only by you during your lifetime and while you remain employed by the Company or an Affiliate, except that to the extent not exercised: (a) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, or Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, you, your estate or the person who acquires this Grant by bequest or inheritance by reason of your death may exercise Options under this Grant at any time during the 24-month period following the date of such event in full; (b) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily prior to age 62 and your termination is designated in writing by the Company as a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, you may exercise Options under this Grant at any time during the 24-month period following the date of such Retirement up to the number of vested exercisable Options you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of exercise, that you do not violate the provisions of your non-competition agreement, in which case, the unvested portion of this Grant will be canceled on the date the Company determines that you violated the provisions of your non-competition agreement; (c) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to Involuntary Termination for any reason other than death, Retirement or Disability, you may exercise Options under this Grant at any time during the 90-day period following the date of such event, up to the number of vested exercisable Options you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of such event resulting in your termination; (d) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily for any reason other than death, Disability, Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, or Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, you may exercise Options under this Grant at any time during the 30-day period following the date of such event, up to the number of vested exercisable Options you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of such event resulting in your termination; and (e) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated for Cause, this Grant will be canceled on the date of your termination of employment. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for any reason other than the events stated above, this Grant will be canceled on the date of your termination of employment.
provided
Each Option granted is for one share of Stock. This Grant shall not constitute an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, in no event may these Options be exercised after the seventh anniversary of the Date of Grant.

Exhibit 10.3
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
GRANTEE: [NAME] [EMPLOYEE ID]
Congratulations! You have been granted a Stock Appreciation Right ("SAR Grant") with respect to shares of $0.01 par value common stock of EOG Resources, Inc. ("Stock") as follows:
This SAR Grant is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Grant Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a SAR Grant that entitles you to receive, upon exercise hereof, the number of shares of Stock determined by multiplying the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over the Grant Price per share set forth above by the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR Grant is exercised and dividing the resulting product by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise. This SAR Grant is exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule and terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous employment with the Company or an Affiliate, this SAR Grant will become vested in 25% increments beginning one year from the Date of Grant and on each of the next three anniversaries of the Date of Grant and will be exercisable after vesting until canceled as noted in the paragraphs below. To the extent vested, this SAR Grant may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates. To the extent that the exercise of this SAR Grant results in income to you for federal, state or local income, employment or other tax purposes with respect to which the Company or an Affiliate has a withholding obligation, the Company or Affiliate is authorized to withhold from the shares subject to this SAR Grant any tax required to be withheld by reason of such taxable income, sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation.
You must exercise this SAR Grant through the Company's designated broker, UBS Financial Services, Inc. ("UBS") by accessing its website at [          ] or by calling [          ]. You will be notified if the designated broker is changed. If you have been notified that you must consult with a member of the Company's Legal Department prior to engaging in Stock transactions, you must consult with the Legal Department prior to exercising this SAR Grant. As soon as administratively practicable following the exercise of this SAR Grant, the shares of Stock exercised under this SAR Grant (net of any applicable tax) will be deposited in a brokerage account established in your name at UBS.
If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, or Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, the unvested portion of this SAR Grant shall become 100% vested on the date of such event. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company (which shall include your entering into a six-month non-competition agreement with the Company), the unvested portion of this SAR Grant shall become 100% vested six months following the effective date of such Retirement, that all provisions of the non-competition agreement are satisfied. Upon a Change in Control of the Company, the unvested portion of this SAR Grant shall become 100% vested as described in Article XIII of the Plan.
provided
This SAR Grant is not transferable by you other than pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Plan, and may be exercised only by you during your lifetime and while you remain employed by the Company or an Affiliate, except that to the extent not exercised: (a) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, or Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service , you, your estate or the person who acquires this SAR Grant by bequest or inheritance by reason of your death may exercise this SAR Grant at any time during the 24-month period following the date of such event in full; (b) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily prior to age 62 and your termination is designated in writing by the Company as a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, you may exercise this SAR Grant at any time during the 24-month period following the date of such Retirement up to the number of vested exercisable SARs you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of exercise, that you do not violate the provisions of your non-competition agreement, in which case, the unvested portion of this SAR Grant will be canceled on the date the Company determines that you violated the provisions of your non-competition agreement; (c) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to Involuntary Termination for any reason other than death, Retirement or Disability, you may exercise this SAR Grant at any time during the 90-day period following the date of such event, up to the number of vested exercisable SARs you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of such event resulting in your termination; (d) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily for any reason other than death, Disability, Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, or Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, you may exercise this SAR Grant at any time during the 30-day period following the date of such event, up to the number of vested exercisable SARs you are entitled to in this Grant Agreement as of the date of such event resulting in your termination; and (e) if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated for Cause, this SAR Grant will be canceled on the date of your termination of employment. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for any reason other than the events stated above, this SAR Grant will be canceled on the date of your termination of employment.
provided
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, in no event may any of this SAR Grant be exercised after the seventh anniversary of the Date of Grant.

Exhibit 10.4
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
GRANTEE: [NAME]
Congratulations! You have been granted a Stock Appreciation Right ("SAR Grant") with respect to shares of $0.01 par value common stock of EOG Resources, Inc. ("Stock") as follows:
This SAR Grant is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Grant Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan.
The Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a SAR Grant that entitles you to receive, upon exercise hereof, the number of shares of Stock determined by multiplying the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over the Grant Price per share set forth above by the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR Grant is exercised and dividing the resulting product by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise. This SAR Grant is exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule and terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous membership on the Board of the Company, this SAR Grant will become vested in 50% increments beginning one year from the Date of Grant and on the next anniversary of the Date of Grant and will be exercisable after vesting until canceled as noted in the paragraphs below. To the extent vested, this SAR Grant may be exercised in whole or in part until it terminates. To the extent that the exercise of this SAR Grant results in income to you for federal, state or local income, employment or other tax purposes with respect to which the Company or an Affiliate has a withholding obligation, the Company or Affiliate is authorized to withhold from the shares subject to this SAR Grant any tax required to be withheld by reason of such taxable income, sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation.
You must exercise this SAR Grant through the Company's designated broker, UBS Financial Services, Inc. ("UBS") by accessing its website at [          ] or by calling [          ]. You will be notified if the designated broker is changed. If you have been notified that you must consult with a member of the Company's Legal Department prior to engaging in Stock transactions, you must consult with the Legal Department prior to exercising this SAR Grant. As soon as administratively practicable following the exercise of this SAR Grant, the shares of Stock exercised under this SAR Grant (net of any applicable tax) will be deposited in a brokerage account established in your name at UBS.
This SAR Grant is not transferable by you other than pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Plan, and may be exercised only by you during your lifetime and while you remain a membership on the Board of the Company, except that to the extent not exercised:
(a) If your membership on the Board terminates voluntarily, this SAR Grant may be exercised at any time during the period of three months following such termination, or by your estate (or the person who acquires this SAR Grant by will or the laws of descent and distribution or otherwise by reason of death) during a period of one year following death if you die during such three-month period, but in each case only as to the number of shares of Stock you were entitled to purchase hereunder upon exercise of this SAR Grant as of the date your membership on the Board so terminates.
(b) If your membership on the Board terminates by reason of disability, this SAR Grant may be exercised in full by you (or your guardian or legal representative or your estate or the person who acquires this SAR Grant by will or the laws of descent and distribution or otherwise by reason of death) at any time during the period of one year following such termination. As used herein, "disability" shall mean the inability to perform the duties and services as a Director of the Company by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment supported by medical evidence which in the opinion of the Board can be expected to result in death or which can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
(c) If your membership on the Board terminates by reason of death, your estate, or the person who acquires this SAR Grant by will or the laws of descent and distribution or otherwise by reason of death, may exercise this SAR Grant in full at any time during the period of one year following death.
(d) If your membership on the Board terminates upon a Change in Control of the Company, the unvested portion of this SAR Grant shall become 100% vested as described in Article XIII of the Plan.
If your membership on the Board terminates for any reason other than as described (a), (b), (c) or (d) above, unless you are removed for cause, this SAR Grant may be exercised in full at any time during the period of three months following such termination, or by your estate (or the person who acquires this SAR Grant by will or the laws of descent and distribution or otherwise by reason of death) during a period of one year following death if you die during such three-month period. For purposes of this Agreement, "cause" shall mean gross negligence or willful misconduct in performance of your duties as a Director, or final conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, in no event may any of this SAR Grant be exercised after the seventh anniversary of the Date of Grant.

Exhibit 10.5
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
[NAME] [EMPLOYEE ID]
Grantee:
Congratulations! You have been granted an Award of EOG Resources, Inc. Restricted Stock shares as follows:
This Restricted Stock Grant is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan. Under the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, a Restricted Stock book entry will be maintained by the Company (or its agent) until you become vested in the Restricted Stock shares. You will have voting rights with respect to the Company common stock represented by such Restricted Stock shares.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a Restricted Stock Grant in accordance with the terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous employment with the Company or an Affiliate, this Award shall vest on and the Restricted Stock shares shall be released on the first business day following (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter). Except as provided below, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate does not continue until , this Award shall terminate and all Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, or upon a Change in Control of the Company (as described in Article XIII of the Plan) on or before , all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall lapse and all shares shall be released to you as soon as administratively practicable following the date of vesting (but no later than 2/ months following the end of the year in which such shares vest). If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily and your termination is designated in writing by the Company as a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company (a condition of which shall include your entering into a six-month noncompetition agreement with the Company), for each whole year that has passed since 20% of the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be released to you six months following the effective date of such Company-approved Retirement; that you do not violate the provisions of your noncompetition agreement, in which case, under the terms of this Agreement, all Restricted Stock shares shall be forfeited and canceled. In the event of Involuntary Termination for any reason other than performance reasons prior to , for each whole year that has passed since 20% of the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be released to you as soon as administratively practicable following the effective date of such Involuntary Termination (but no later than 2/ months following the end of the year in which you were terminated). In the event of Involuntary Termination for performance reasons, Termination for Cause, or voluntary termination prior to , all Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled.
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
1
2
[Grant Date]
provided
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Grant Date]
1
2
[Five year anniversary of grant date]

Exhibit 10.6
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
[NAME] [EMPLOYEE ID]
Grantee:
Congratulations! You have been granted an Award of EOG Resources, Inc. Restricted Stock Units as follows:
This Restricted Stock Unit Grant is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan. Under the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, a Restricted Stock Unit ledger account will be maintained by the Company until you become vested in the Restricted Stock Units. You will have no voting rights with respect to the Company common stock represented by such Restricted Stock Units until such time as the common stock is issued to you.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a Restricted Stock Unit Grant in accordance with the terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous employment with the Company or an Affiliate, this Award shall vest on and the shares of common stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall be distributed on the first business day following (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter). Except as provided below, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate does not continue until , this Award shall terminate and all Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to death, Disability, Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, or upon a Change in Control of the Company (as described in Article XIII of the Plan) on or before , all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall lapse. In the event of your death on or before , all shares of common stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall be distributed to your beneficiary as soon as administratively practicable following your date of death. In the event of your termination of employment due to Disability, Retirement after attaining age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company, or termination of employment following a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in the Plan), such termination or Retirement occurring on or before , and subject to the six-month delay applicable to specified employees described under "" below, all shares of common stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall be distributed to you as soon as administratively practicable following your date of termination or Retirement. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates voluntarily and your termination is designated in writing by the Company as a Company-approved Retirement prior to age 62 with at least five years of service with the Company (a condition of which shall include your entering into a six-month noncompetition agreement with the Company), for each whole year that has passed since you shall be eligible to receive a distribution of 20% of the shares of common stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder, which stock will be distributed to you six months following the effective date of such Company-approved Retirement; that you do not violate the provisions of your noncompetition agreement, in which case, under the terms of this Agreement, all Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited and canceled. In the event of Involuntary Termination for any reason other than performance reasons prior to , for each whole year that has passed since you shall be eligible to receive a distribution of 20% of the shares of common stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units, which stock will be distributed to you as soon as administratively practicable following the effective date of such Involuntary Termination, subject to the six-month delay applicable to specified employees described under "" below. In the event of Involuntary Termination for performance reasons, Termination for Cause, or voluntary termination prior to , all Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled.
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
Section 409A
[Grant Date]
provided
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
[Grant Date]
Section 409A
[Five year anniversary of grant date]
. The Plan and this Agreement are intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and shall be administered such that any payment, settlement or deferrals of amounts under this Agreement shall not be subject to the excise penalty tax applicable under Section 409A. Accordingly, if you are determined by the Company, in its sole discretion, to be a "specified employee" of the Company (as that phrase is defined for purposes of Section 409A) on the date of your termination of employment or Retirement prior to , any stock distributable to you under this Agreement shall be distributed to you no earlier than six months following such Retirement or termination of employment, or, if earlier, your death.
Section 409A
[Five year anniversary of grant date]

Exhibit 10.7
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
[NAME]
Grantee:
Congratulations! You have been granted an Award of EOG Resources, Inc. Restricted Stock shares as follows:
This Restricted Stock Grant is governed by the terms and conditions of the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), which is hereby made a part of this Agreement. A copy of the Plan is available upon request to the Human Resources Department of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them under the Plan. Under the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, a Restricted Stock book entry will be maintained by the Company (or its agent) until you become vested in the Restricted Stock shares. You will have voting rights with respect to the Company common stock represented by such Restricted Stock shares.
The Company pursuant to the Plan, hereby grants to you, the above-named Grantee, effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above, a Restricted Stock Grant in accordance with the terms set forth below.
Assuming your continuous membership on the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company, this Award shall vest on and the Restricted Stock shares shall be released on the first business day following (or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter). Upon vesting, thirty-five percent of the vested shares may be sold to cover any tax obligation you may incur as a result of the vesting and sixty-five percent of the vested shares must be held until you no longer serve as a member on the Board.
[One year anniversary of grant date]
[One year anniversary of grant date]
Except as provided below, if your membership on the Board does not continue until , this Award shall terminate and all Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled. If your membership on the Board terminates due to death on or before , all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall lapse and all shares shall be distributed to your estate, or the person who acquires this grant by will or the laws of descent and distribution as soon as administratively practicable following your death. If your membership on the Board terminates due to disability on or before , all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall lapse and all shares shall be distributed to you as soon as administratively practicable following your date of termination. As used herein, "disability" shall mean the inability to perform the duties and services as a Director of the Company by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment supported by medical evidence which in the opinion of the Board can be expected to result in death or which can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months. Upon a Change in Control of the Company (as described in Article XIII of the Plan) on or before , all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall lapse and all shares shall be distributed to you as soon as administratively practicable following the date of vesting. If your membership on the Board terminates because you do not stand for re-election to the Board at the following Annual Meeting of Stockholders, all forfeiture restrictions on the Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall lapse and all shares shall be distributed to you as soon as administratively practicable following your date of termination. If you are removed from the Board for cause on or before , this Award shall terminate and all Restricted Stock shares awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and canceled. For purposes of this Agreement, "cause" shall mean gross negligence or willful misconduct in performance of duties a Director, or final conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
[One year anniversary of grant date]
[One year anniversary of grant date]
[One year anniversary of grant date]
[One year anniversary of grant date]
[One year anniversary of grant date]


