FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20080109171729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
The Board of Directors of EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) has amended Article VI of the Bylaws of EOG to provide for the issuance, transfer and registration of uncertificated shares of EOG's capital stock. The amendment was made in connection with the enrollment of EOG's common stock in the Direct Registration System (DRS) of The Depository Trust Company, as required by the rules adopted by the New York Stock Exchange (on which EOG's common stock is listed). The DRS allows investors to have securities registered in their names without the issuance of physical certificates and, moreover, allows investors to electronically transfer securities to broker-dealers in order to effect securities transactions without the risks and delays associated with transferring physical certificates. Prior to the amendment, EOG's Bylaws did not prohibit the issuance, transfer and registration of uncertificated shares of EOG's capital stock; the purpose of the amendment, which was adopted effective January 4, 2008, was to cla rify that EOG may issue shares of its capital stock in uncertificated form.
A copy of the amendment to Article VI of EOG's Bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
I. Price Risk Management
(a) With the objective of enhancing the certainty of future revenues, from time to time EOG enters into New York Mercantile Exchange related financial commodity collar and price swap contracts. EOG accounts for these financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method. In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions. The financial impact of these physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.
(b) For the fourth quarter of 2007, EOG anticipates a net gain of $45.2 million from its natural gas and crude oil financial price swap contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2007, net cash inflow related to settled natural gas and crude oil financial price swap contracts was $28.8 million.
II. Natural Gas Financial Price Swap Contracts
(a) For the fourth quarter of 2007, EOG anticipates a gain of $54.3 million from its natural gas financial price swap contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2007, net cash inflow related to settled natural gas financial price swap contracts was $32.0 million.
 
(b) Since EOG filed its Current Report on Form 8-K on November 7, 2007, EOG has entered into natural gas financial price swap contracts covering notional volumes of 50,000 million British thermal units per day (MMBtud) for the period January 2009 through December 2009 at an average price of $8.50 per million British thermal units (MMBtu). Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's natural gas financial price swap contracts as of January 8, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in MMBtud and prices in dollars per MMBtu ($/MMBtu). The average price of EOG's natural gas financial price swap contracts outstanding for 2008 is $8.50 per MMBtu.
 
III. Crude Oil Financial Price Swap Contracts
(a) For the fourth quarter of 2007, EOG anticipates a loss of $9.1 million from its crude oil financial price swap contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2007, net cash outflow related to settled crude oil financial price swap contracts was $3.2 million.
(b) Since EOG filed its Current Report on Form 8-K on November 7, 2007, EOG has entered into additional crude oil financial price swap contracts covering notional volumes of 6,000 barrels per day (Bbld) for the period February 2008 through November 2008 and notional volumes of 2,000 Bbld for December 2008. Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's crude oil financial price swap contracts as of January 8, 2008, with notional volumes expressed in Bbld and prices in dollars per barrel ($/Bbl). The average price of EOG's crude oil financial price swap contracts outstanding is $90.75 per Bbl.
 
IV. Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding EOG's future financial position, business strategy, budgets, reserve information, projected levels of production, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results, the ability to replace or increase reserves or to increase production, or the ability to generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not g uarantees of performance. Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others:
the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and financial market conditions;
the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG;
the timing and impact of liquefied natural gas imports;
changes in demand or prices for ammonia or methanol;
the extent of EOG's success in discovering, developing, marketing and producing reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties;
the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise;
the ability to achieve production levels from existing and future oil and gas development projects due to operating hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in predicting oil and gas reservoir performance;
the availability and cost of drilling rigs, experienced drilling crews, tubular steel and other materials, equipment and services used in drilling and well completions;
the availability, terms and timing of mineral licenses and leases and governmental and other permits and rights of way;
access to surface locations for drilling and production facilities;
the availability and capacity of gathering, processing and pipeline transportation facilities;
the availability of compression uplift capacity;
the extent to which EOG can economically develop its Barnett Shale acreage outside of Johnson County, Texas;
whether EOG is successful in its efforts to more densely develop its acreage in the Barnett Shale and other production areas;
political developments around the world and the enactment of new government policies, legislation and regulations;
acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; and
weather, including weather-related delays in the installation of gathering and production facilities.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and EOG undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 10, 2007, EOG repurchased 38,260 shares of its 7.195% Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, with a $1,000 Liquidation Preference per share (Series B) for an aggregate purchase price of $40.6 million. The premium associated with the repurchase will be included as a component of preferred dividends. At December 31, 2007, 5,000 shares of the Series B with a book value of $5.0 million remained outstanding.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (d) Exhibits.
          3.2 Amendment, effective January 4, 2008, to the Bylaws, dated August 23, 1989, as amended and restated.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                         
Exhibit No.
Description
    3.2                                 Amendment, effective January 4, 2008, to the Bylaws, dated August 23, 1989, as amended and restated.
 

Exhibit 3.2
Pursuant to the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Corporation") as of January 4, 2008, the Corporation's Bylaws were amended, effective as of January 4, 2008, to delete Article VI of the Bylaws in its entirety and replace it with the following:
    . . The shares of the Corporation's capital stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; provided, however, that every holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, President, Vice Chairman of the Board or a Vice President and the Secretary, Deputy Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation representing the number of shares (and, if the stock of the Corporation shall be divided into classes or series, certifying the class and series of such shares) owned by such stockholder which are registered in certified form; provided, however, that any of or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile. The certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Corpora tion shall be in such form, not inconsistent with that required by law and the Certificate of Incorporation, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. The stock record books and the blank stock certificate books shall be kept by the Secretary, or at the office of such transfer agent or transfer agents as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who shall have signed or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been placed upon any such certificate or certificates shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued by the Corporation, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. The stock certificates shall be consecutively numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation as they are issued and shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares .
Section 1
Shares of Stock
    . . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only on the books of the Corporation, (i) in the case of certificated shares of stock, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder named in the certificate or by such person's duly authorized attorney or legal representative lawfully constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, properly endorsed for transfer, and payment of all necessary transfer taxes or (ii) in the case of uncertificated shares of stock, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered holder of the shares or by such person's duly authorized attorney or legal representative lawfully constituted in writing and upon payment of all necessary transfer taxes and compliance with appropriate procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form; provided, however, that such surrender and endorsement, compliance or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which t he officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement. With respect to certificated shares of stock, every certificate exchanged, returned or surrendered to the Corporation shall be marked "Cancelled," with the date of cancellation, by the Secretary, Deputy Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof. No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to who transferred.
Section 2
Transfer of Shares
    . . The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of capital stock of the Corporation as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the state of incorporation of the Corporation
Section 3
Ownership of Shares
    . . Subject to applicable law and the Bylaws of the Corporation, the Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation (whether certificated or uncertificated) or, in the case of certificated shares of capital stock of the Corporation, the replacement of certificates for shares.
Section 4
Regulations Regarding Shares of Stock
    . . The Board of Directors may determine the conditions upon which the Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in place of a certificate theretofore issued by it which is alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed and may require the owner of such certificate or such owner's legal representative to give bond, with surety sufficient to indemnify the Corporation and each transfer agent and registrar against any and all losses or claims which may arise by reason of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares in the place of the certificate so lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 5
Lost or Destroyed Certificates



