FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20100209190006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 9, 2010, EOG Resources, Inc. issued a press release announcing fourth quarter 2009 financial and operational results and first quarter and full year 2010 forecast and benchmark commodity pricing information (see Item 7.01 below). A copy of this release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this filing and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Accompanying the press release announcing fourth quarter 2009 financial and operational results attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is first quarter and full year 2010 forecast and benchmark commodity pricing information for EOG Resources, Inc., which information is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (d) Exhibits
            99.1     Press Release of EOG Resources, Inc. dated February 9, 2010 (including the accompanying first quarter and full year 2010 forecast and benchmark commodity pricing information).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                 
Exhibit No.
Description

EOG RESOURCES REPORTS 2009 RESULTS AND INCREASES DIVIDEND
Delivers 6.5 Percent 2009 Year-Over-Year Production Growth
Reports Consistent Operational Results in Top North American Plays
Targets 13 Percent Total Company and 47 Percent Liquids Production Growth in 2010
Posts 364 Percent Total Reserve Replacement at Attractive Finding Costs in 2009
Increases Dividend on Common Stock for 11 Time in 11 Years
th
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, February 9, 2010
HOUSTON - EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) today reported fourth quarter 2009 net income available to common stockholders of $400.4 million, or $1.58 per share. This compares to fourth quarter 2008 net income available to common stockholders of $461.5 million, or $1.84 per share. For the full year 2009, EOG reported net income available to common stockholders of $546.6 million, or $2.17 per share as compared to $2,436.5 million, or $9.72 per share, for the full year 2008.
The results for the fourth quarter 2009 included a non-cash gain on a property exchange in the Rocky Mountain area of $389.6 million ($244.2 million after tax, or $0.97 per share), a gain on sale of assets of $146.5 million ($91.8 million after tax, or $0.36 per share) related to the disposition of crude oil assets and surrounding acreage in California and a previously disclosed non-cash net gain of $25.9 million ($16.7 million after tax, or $0.07 per share) on the mark-to-market of financial commodity transactions. During the quarter, the net cash inflow related to financial commodity contracts was $290.6 million ($186.6 million after tax, or $0.74 per share). Consistent with some analysts' practice of matching realizations to settlement months, and making certain other adjustments in order to exclude one-time items, adjusted non-GAAP net income available to common stockholders for the quarter was $234.3 million, or $0.92 per share. Adjusted non-GAAP net income available to common stockholders for th e fourth quarter 2008 was $186.0 million, or $0.74 per share. On a similar basis, eliminating the items detailed in the attached table, adjusted non-GAAP net income available to common stockholders for the full year 2009 was $754.5 million, or $3.00 per share, and for the full year 2008 was $1,879.1 million, or $7.50 per share. (Please refer to the attached tables for the reconciliation of adjusted non-GAAP net income available to common stockholders to GAAP net income available to common stockholders.)
2009 Operational Highlights
EOG delivered 6.5 percent total company production growth over 2008. Total liquids production in North America increased 30 percent, comprised of 23 percent growth in crude oil and condensate and 48 percent in natural gas liquids. In the United States, the substantial increase in total liquids production was primarily driven by ongoing exploration and development drilling in the North Dakota Bakken and Fort Worth Barnett Shale Combo Plays.
"Over the last several years, we have channeled a greater amount of EOG's capital expenditure program toward crude oil and liquids-rich opportunities. The resulting increase in our liquids volumes, which is significant, reflects EOG's progress in shifting toward a more balanced mix in our North American production portfolio," said Mark G. Papa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
With a position in excess of 500,000 net acres in the North Dakota Bakken, EOG focused drilling operations on its 100,000 net acres in the Bakken Core during the first part of 2009. As crude oil pricing gradually improved over the course of the year, EOG expanded its drilling program outside of the Parshall Field to its Bakken Lite acreage. Additionally, EOG began testing its first wells in the Three Forks Formation in both the Core Parshall Field and the Bakken Lite. Initial production profiles are encouraging with recoverable reserves expected to be similar to those in the Bakken Lite.
The Van Hook 100-15H, which was drilled in Mountrail County, N.D., tested the Three Forks Formation in the Parshall Field. EOG has 30 percent working interest in the well, which began initial production at a rate of 1,390 barrels of oil per day (Bopd). Also in Mountrail County, EOG drilled two Bakken Lite wells toward the end of the year. The Ross 05-08H began initial production at 370 Bopd with estimated reserves of 350 thousand barrels of oil (Mbo). EOG has 100 percent working interest in the well. To test a longer length lateral, EOG drilled the James Hill 01-31H. The well began initial production at 650 Bopd, in-line with pre-drill expectations. EOG holds 79 percent working interest in this well. Extending the productive area of its acreage, EOG drilled a well in Williams County, 90 miles west of the Parshall Field. The Round Prairie 1-17H, in which EOG has 95 percent working interest, is producing at a stabilized rate of 450 Bopd and is expected to have a similar production profile as a Bakken Lite w ell.
Having recognized the need for additional crude oil takeaway capacity from the Williston Basin, EOG designed, constructed and placed in service at year-end a rail and pipeline system to transport its crude oil from the core of this prolific basin, Stanley, N.D., to a market hub, Cushing, Okla. This unique transportation solution will improve the pricing and overall economics of EOG's Bakken crude oil production. In addition, EOG's Prairie Rose Pipeline was recently placed in service, which interconnects with a mainline system that transports natural gas to a processing plant near Chicago, Ill.
In an effort to focus on its more geographically concentrated western U.S. drilling operations, EOG divested its non-core California crude oil properties during the fourth quarter.
In the Fort Worth Basin, EOG commissioned a plant in February 2009 that extracts natural gas liquids from the rich natural gas production stream of the Barnett Combo Play. This enabled EOG to move into development drilling of both vertical and horizontal wells in Montague and Cooke Counties. EOG recently completed four vertical wells in Cooke County. The Dangelmayr #5 and B#6 began initial production at rates of 700 Bopd with 450 thousand cubic feet of natural gas per day (Mcfd), and 500 Bopd with 300 Mcfd, respectively. The Fitzgerald #2 and #14 began production at initial rates of 300 Bopd with 200 Mcfd and 450 Bopd with 400 Mcfd, respectively. EOG has 100 percent working interest in the wells. In Montague County, using horizontal technology, EOG recently completed the Boyd B #1H, which began flowing to sales at 300 Bopd with 1,500 Mcfd, and the Flying V #1H, at 250 Bopd with 1,400 Mcfd. EOG has 96 and 100 percent working interest in the wells, respectively. Already realizing the benefits of its refined completion techniques and improved operational efficiencies, EOG is testing optimal well spacing on its Fort Worth Barnett Combo acreage.
In an area where EOG had previously focused on the Haynesville, EOG reported strong production results from its first Bossier natural gas test. The Sustainable Forest 5 - - No. 2 Alt., drilled to a vertical depth of 11,400 feet in the Trenton prospect area in DeSoto Parish, La., began producing at 13 million cubic feet per day. EOG has 100 percent working interest in the well that is estimated to have reserves in excess of 8 billion cubic feet. EOG is currently operating five rigs in the Trenton prospect where it is drilling and developing both the Bossier and Haynesville reservoirs concurrently.
2010 Operational Plans and Targets
Carrying the momentum of a strong operational year forward into 2010, EOG continues to target 13 percent total company full year organic production growth over 2009 with a 47 percent increase in total liquids production. The liquids growth will be driven by expanded operations in the North Dakota Bakken where EOG plans to execute an active drilling program in the Bakken Core and Lite, as well as the Three Forks Formation. Also fueling the liquids growth will be an increased level of drilling activity in the Fort Worth Barnett Combo and the Waskada Field in Manitoba.
EOG's North American natural gas production is expected to increase 2 percent over 2009. Plans are to ramp up activity levels in the Haynesville, Bossier and Marcellus Shales during the second half of the year. In the Horn River Basin, EOG will operate an active drilling program in the first half of the year, with the goal of completing and turning wells to sales during the second half of 2010.
Reserves
At December 31, 2009, total company proved reserves were approximately 10.8 trillion cubic feet equivalent, an increase of 2,087 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe), or 24 percent higher than year-end 2008.
For the year-end 2009 reserve report, EOG applied new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules regarding the estimation of proved natural gas and crude oil reserves. In accordance with those rules, the proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) category has been revised to allow the use of "reliable technology" to establish "reasonable certainty" of production for drilling locations beyond "one offset" for a producing well. The SEC has also imposed a five-year limit for the development of PUDs unless there is a specific reason for a longer period. Based on this definition and its applicability to large resource plays, EOG has added significant PUDs in the Haynesville, Horn River, Barnett Combo and Marcellus Shale Plays at precisely mapped locations which have been tied back to a plan that is executable within the next five years.
In 2009:
Total reserve replacement from all sources - the ratio of net reserve additions from drilling, acquisitions, total revisions and dispositions to total production - was 364 percent at a total reserve replacement cost of $1.18 per thousand cubic feet equivalent (Mcfe) based on cash exploration and development expenditures of $3,436 million. (Please refer to the attached tables for the calculation of total reserve replacement and total reserve replacement cost.)
In the United States, total reserve replacement from all sources was 431 percent at a reserve replacement cost of $1.21 per Mcfe based on cash exploration and development expenditures of $3,037 million. (Please refer to the attached tables for the calculation of total reserve replacement and total reserve replacement cost.)
During 2009, price related revisions were negative 786 Bcfe. Excluding the impact of price related revisions, total reserve replacement was 464 percent at a reserve replacement cost of $0.93 per Mcfe.
For the 22 consecutive year, internal reserve estimates were within 5 percent of those prepared by the independent reserve engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton (D&M). For 2009, D&M prepared a complete independent engineering analysis of properties containing 81 percent of EOG's proved reserves on a Bcfe basis.
nd
Capital Structure
At December 31, 2009, EOG's total debt outstanding was $2,797 million for a debt-to-total capitalization ratio of 22 percent. Taking into account cash on the balance sheet of $686 million, at the end of the year EOG's net debt was $2,111 million and the net debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 17 percent. (Please refer to the attached tables for the reconciliation of net debt (non-GAAP) to current and long-term debt (GAAP) and the reconciliation of net debt-to-total capitalization ratio (non-GAAP) to debt-to-total capitalization ratio (GAAP).)
"We expect our year-end net debt-to-total capital ratio of 17 percent will be among the lowest of our peer group," said Papa. "This accomplishment, coupled with our 10-year average ROCE of 18 percent, reflects EOG's long standing commitment to deliver superior stockholder returns. It is likely that EOG will be one of a few peer E&P companies to report positive GAAP net income for 2009."
(Please refer to the attached tables for the calculation of return on capital employed (ROCE) and the related reconciliations of after-tax interest expense (non-GAAP), net debt (non-GAAP), and total capitalization (non-GAAP) as used in the calculations of ROCE, to interest expense (GAAP), current and long-term debt (GAAP), and total capitalization (GAAP).)
Dividend Increase
Following an increase in the common stock dividend in 2009, EOG's Board of Directors has again increased the cash dividend on the common stock. Effective with the dividend payable on April 30, 2010 to holders of record as of April 16, 2010, the quarterly dividend on the common stock will be $0.155 per share, an increase of 7 percent over the previous indicated annual rate. The indicated annual rate of $0.62 per share is the 11th increase in 11 years.
Conference Call Scheduled for February 10, 2010
EOG's fourth quarter and full year 2009 results conference call will be available via live audio webcast at 8 a.m. Central Standard Time (9 a.m. Eastern Standard Time) on Wednesday, February 10, 2010. To listen, log on to www.eogresources.com. The webcast will be archived on EOG's website through February 24, 2010.
EOG Resources, Inc. is one of the largest independent (non-integrated) oil and natural gas companies in the United States with proved reserves in the Unites States, Canada, Trinidad, the United Kingdom and China. EOG Resources, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol "EOG."
This press release, including the accompanying forecast and benchmark commodity pricing information, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements and projections regarding EOG's future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, budgets, reserve information, levels of production and costs and statements regarding the plans and objectives of EOG's management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target," "goal," "may," "will" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied , concerning EOG's future operating results and returns or EOG's ability to replace or increase reserves, increase production or generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these assumptions are accurate or that these expectations will be achieved or will prove to have been correct. Moreover, EOG's forward-looking statements may be affected by known and unknown risks, events or circumstances that may be outside EOG's control. Important factors that could cause EOG's actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others:
the timing and extent of changes in prices for natural gas, crude oil and related commodities;
changes in demand for natural gas, crude oil and related commodities, including ammonia and methanol;
the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to discover, develop, market and produce reserves and to acquire natural gas and crude oil properties;
the extent to which EOG can optimize reserve recovery and economically develop its plays utilizing horizontal and vertical drilling and advanced completion technologies;
the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to economically develop its acreage in the Barnett Shale, the Bakken Formation, its Horn River Basin and Haynesville plays and its other exploration and development areas;
EOG's ability to achieve anticipated production levels from existing and future natural gas and crude oil development projects, given the risks and uncertainties inherent in drilling, completing and operating natural gas and crude oil wells and the potential for interruptions of production, whether involuntary or intentional as a result of market or other conditions;
the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities;
the availability, cost, terms and timing of issuance or execution of, and competition for, mineral licenses and leases and governmental and other permits and rights of way;
competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry for employees and other personnel, equipment, materials and services and, related thereto, the availability and cost of employees and other personnel, equipment, materials and services;
EOG's ability to obtain access to surface locations for drilling and production facilities;
the extent to which EOG's third-party-operated natural gas and crude oil properties are operated successfully and economically;
EOG's ability to effectively integrate acquired natural gas and crude oil properties into its operations, fully identify existing and potential problems with respect to such properties and accurately estimate reserves, production and costs with respect to such properties;
weather, including its impact on natural gas and crude oil demand, and weather-related delays in drilling and in the installation and operation of gathering and production facilities;
the ability of EOG's customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to EOG and, related thereto, to access the credit and capital markets to obtain financing needed to satisfy their obligations to EOG;
EOG's ability to access the commercial paper market and other credit and capital markets to obtain financing on terms it deems acceptable, if at all;
the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise;
the timing and extent of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, global and domestic financial market conditions and global and domestic general economic conditions;
the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG;
the timing and impact of liquefied natural gas imports;
the use of competing energy sources and the development of alternative energy sources;
political developments around the world, including in the areas in which EOG operates;
changes in government policies, legislation and regulations, including environmental regulations;
the extent to which EOG incurs uninsured losses and liabilities;
acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; and
the other factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," on pages 13 through 19 of EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and any updates to those factors set forth in EOG's subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur, and you should not place any undue reliance on any of EOG's forward-looking statements. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and EOG undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Effective January 1, 2010, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) now permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose not only "proved" reserves (i.e., quantities of oil and gas that are estimated to be recoverable with a high degree of confidence), but also "probable" reserves (i.e., quantities of oil and gas that are as likely as not to be recovered) as well as "possible" reserves (i.e., additional quantities of oil and gas that might be recovered, but with a lower probability than probable reserves). As noted above, statements of reserves are only estimates and may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this presentation that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely t he disclosure in EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, available from EOG at P.O. Box 4362, Houston, Texas 77210-4362 (Attn: Investor Relations). You can also obtain this report from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 or from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



