FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20100715172153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
I.         Price Risk Management
With the objective of enhancing the certainty of future revenues, from time to time EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) enters into New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) related financial collar, price swap and basis swap contracts.  EOG accounts for financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method.  In addition to financial transactions, from time to time EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  The financial impact of these physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.
For the second quarter of 2010, EOG anticipates a non-cash net gain of $37.0 million on the mark-to-market of its natural gas and crude oil financial collar, price swap and basis swap contracts.  During the second quarter of 2010, net cash inflow related to settled natural gas financial collar, price swap and basis swap contracts was $15.9 million.
For the quarter ended June 30, 2010, NYMEX natural gas at Henry Hub averaged $4.07 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) and NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil averaged $78.03 per barrel.  EOG's actual realizations for natural gas and crude oil for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 will differ from these NYMEX prices due to location and quality adjustments.
As of July 1, 2010, EOG has no outstanding natural gas financial collar or price swap contracts in place.
II.         Natural Gas Financial Basis Swap Contracts
Prices received by EOG for its natural gas production generally vary from NYMEX prices due to adjustments for delivery location (basis) and other factors.  EOG utilizes natural gas financial basis swap contracts in order to fix the differential between prices in the Rocky Mountain area and NYMEX Henry Hub prices.  Since filing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on May 4, 2010, EOG has not entered into any additional natural gas financial basis swap contracts.
 
 
 
Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's natural gas financial basis swap contracts as of July 15, 2010.  The notional volumes are expressed in MMBtu per day (MMBtud) and price differentials are expressed in dollars per MMBtu ($/MMBtu).  The weighted average price differential represents the amount of reduction to NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu for the notional volumes covered by the basis swap contracts.
(1) Includes closed contracts for the month of July 2010.
III.         Crude Oil Financial Price Swap Contracts
Since filing its Current Report on Form 8-K on May 26, 2010, EOG has not entered into any additional crude oil financial price swap contracts.  Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's crude oil financial price swap contracts as of July 15, 2010, with notional volumes expressed in barrels per day (Bbld) and prices in dollars per barrel ($/Bbl).  The average price of EOG's crude oil financial price swap contracts outstanding is $91.50 per barrel for the period from September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 and $93.18 per barrel for the year 2011.
 
 
 
IV.         Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements and projections regarding EOG's future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, returns, budgets, reserves, levels of production and costs and statements regarding the plans and objectives of EOG's management for future operations, are forward-looking statements.  EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target," "goal," "may," "will" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other var iations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements.  In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning EOG's future operating results and returns or EOG's ability to replace or increase reserves, increase production or generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.  Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these assumptions are accurate or that any of these expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will prove to have been correct.  Moreover, EOG's forward-looking statements may be affected by known and unknown risks, events or circumstances that may be outside EOG's control.  Important factors that could cause EOG's actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking stat ements include, among others:
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur, and, if any of such events do, we may not have anticipated the timing of their occurrence or the extent of their impact on our actual results.  Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on any of EOG's forward-looking statements. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and EOG undertakes no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 



