FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20110118171023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(c)On January 12, 2011, the Board of Directors (Board) of EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) promoted William R. Thomas to the position of Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation, effective as of February 1, 2011.  Mr. Thomas, 58, has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of EOGs Fort Worth, Texas office since February 2007 and, from June 2004 to February 2007, served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOGs Fort Worth, Texas office.
 
 
In connection with the promotion, EOG entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Thomas, effective as of February 1, 2011, with terms substantially similar to EOGs other employment agreements currently in effect.  Under the terms of the employment agreement, Mr. Thomas will receive a minimum annual base salary of $500,000 and a target annual bonus of 90% of his annual base salary under the EOG Resources, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Officer Annual Bonus Plan (or such other bonus plan as may be established from time to time by EOG for similarly situated EOG executive officers).  The bonus may be delivered in cash and/or equity awards, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board.  As a long-term incentive, Mr. Thomas is also eligible to receive grants under the EOG Resources, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, as amended (Plan), or such other equity compensation plans established from time to time by EOG, consistent with similarly situated EOG executive officers.  After May 31, 2012, Mr. Thomass employment agreement will be automatically renewed annually for successive one-year terms unless EOG or Mr. Thomas provides a 120-day notice of intent not to renew.  In the event Mr. Thomass employment agreement is not renewed pursuant to such notice and he remains employed by EOG beyond the expiration of the term of the employment agreement (including any renewals), Mr. Thomass employment shall convert to a month-to-month relationship terminable at any time by either EOG or Mr. Thomas for any reason.
 
The employment agreement also subjects Mr. Thomas to certain confidentiality and non-competition obligations that are substantially similar to those set forth in EOGs other employment agreements currently in effect.  As an inducement to enter into the employment agreement, EOG granted Mr. Thomas 12,500 restricted stock units, with five-year cliff vesting from the date of grant, under the Plan.
 
EOG also entered into a change of control agreement with Mr. Thomas, effective as of January 12, 2011, with terms substantially similar to EOGs other change of control agreements currently in effect.  Under the terms of the change of control agreement, if Mr. Thomass employment is terminated (i) by EOG for any reason other than for cause (as defined in the agreement) or by Mr. Thomas for good reason (as defined in the agreement), within two years after a change of control (as defined in the agreement) of EOG, or (ii) by Mr. Thomas for any reason during the 30-day period beginning six months after a change of control of EOG, then Mr. Thomas will receive the following:
 
If Mr. Thomass employment is terminated within two years after a change of control of EOG (i) by EOG for cause, (ii) by Mr. Thomas for other than good reason or (iii) as a result of Mr. Thomass death, disability or retirement, then he will be entitled only to his annual base salary and any other compensation and benefits earned and payable through the termination date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


