FILE:EOG/EOG-8K-20120717172819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 17, 2012
_______________
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
1111 Bagby, Sky Lobby 2
Houston, Texas  77002
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
713-651-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
EOG RESOURCES, INC.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
I.
Price Risk Management
  
With the objective of enhancing the certainty of future revenues, from time to time EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) enters into New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) related financial collar, price swap, option and basis swap contracts.  EOG accounts for financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method.  In addition to financial transactions, from time to time EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  The financial impact of these physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.
For the second quarter of 2012, EOG anticipates a non-cash net gain of $188.4 million on the mark-to-market of its crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts.  During the second quarter of 2012, net cash inflow related to settled crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts was $173.2 million.
For the quarter ended June 30, 2012, NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil averaged $93.49 per barrel, and NYMEX natural gas at Henry Hub averaged $2.26 per million British thermal units (MMBtu).  EOG's actual realizations for crude oil and natural gas for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 differ from these NYMEX prices due to delivery location and quality adjustments.
II.
Crude Oil Derivative Contracts
  
Since filing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 on May 8, 2012 (2012 First Quarter Form 10-Q), EOG entered into additional crude oil derivative contracts.  Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's crude oil derivative contracts as of July 17, 2012, with notional volumes expressed in barrels per day (Bbld) and prices expressed in dollars per barrel ($/Bbl).
III.
Natural Gas Derivative Contracts
  
Since filing its 2012 First Quarter Form 10-Q, EOG has not entered into any additional natural gas derivative contracts.  Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's natural gas derivative contracts as of July 17, 2012, with notional volumes expressed in MMBtu per day (MMBtud) and prices expressed in dollars per MMBtu ($/MMBtu).
IV.
Forward-Looking Statements
  
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements and projections regarding EOG's future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, returns, budgets, reserves, levels of production and costs and statements regarding the plans and objectives of EOG's management for future operations, are forward-looking statements.  EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target," "goal," "may," "will" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward-looking statements.  In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning EOG's future operating results and returns or EOG's ability to replace or increase reserves, increase production, generate income or cash flows or pay dividends are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.  Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these assumptions are accurate or that any of these expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will prove to have been correct.  Moreover, EOG's forward-looking statements may be affected by known and unknown risks, events or circumstances that may be outside EOG's control.  Important factors that could cause EOG's actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others:
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur, and, if any of such events do, we may not have anticipated the timing of their occurrence or the extent of their impact on our actual results.  Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on any of EOG's forward-looking statements. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and EOG undertakes no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


