FILE:TROW/TROW-8K-20100416094159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 14, 2010, our Board of Directors unanimously adopted a Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation for executive officers of the company. A copy of the policy is attached as Exhibit 10.19 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The annual meeting of our stockholders was held on April 14, 2010. The proxy statement and solicitation pertaining to this meeting were previously filed with the Commission. Shares eligible to vote were 258,790,075 at the record date of February 12, 2010. The nine nominees for the Board of Directors were elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualify. The tabulation of votes was:
The appointment of KPMG LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010 was ratified by a vote of 222,434,650 for; 8,154,684 against; and 215,626 abstentions.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
          Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation
10.19
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.

Exhibit 10.19
In the event of a determination of a need for a material restatement of the Company's financial results within three years of the original reporting, the Board will review the facts and circumstances that led to the requirement for the restatement and will take actions it deems necessary and appropriate. The Board will consider whether any executive officer received incentive compensation, including equity awards, based on the original financial statements that in fact was not warranted based on the restatement. The Board will also consider the accountability of any executive officer whose acts or omissions were responsible in whole or in part for the events that led to the restatement. The actions the Board could elect to take against a particular executive officer, depending on all facts and circumstances as determined during their review, include: the recoupment of all or part of any bonus or other incentive compensation paid to the executive officer, including recoupment in whole or in part of equity awards; disciplinary actions, up to and including termination; and/or the pursuit of other available remedies, at the Board's discretion.
For purposes of this policy, the term "executive officer" shall mean executive officers of the Company as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such other senior executives as may be determined by the Board.
The Company shall take such action as it deems necessary or appropriate to implement this Policy, including requiring all covered officers to acknowledge the rights and powers of the Company and the Board of Directors hereunder.
Adopted: April 14, 2010 Board of Directors T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.


