FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20021024123240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 5.    Other Events.
        The Dow Chemical Company issued a press release on October 24, 2002, announcing results for the third quarter of 2002.
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
99.1
Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on October 24, 2002, announcing results for the third quarter of 2002.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 5. Other Events.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.1
October 24, 2002
 - 
Sales grew 5 percent from a year ago to $7 billion, with a 3 percent increase in volume and a 2 percent increase in price.
 - 
Excluding unusual items in both periods, earnings per share were $0.16, flat with last year, and EBIT rose 12 percent to $433 million.
 - 
The Company experienced slight margin contraction in the quarter, primarily due to increased purchased feedstock and energy costs, which were up more than $120 million from a year ago.
 - 
Dow announces additional steps to improve earnings and cash flow.
Review of Third Quarter Results
        The Dow Chemical Company today reported third quarter sales of $7 billion, compared with $6.7 billion a year ago, an increase of 5 percent. Reported net income was $128 million, or $0.14 per share. Excluding unusual items, earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interests ("EBIT") were $433 million, net income was $148 million and earnings per share were $0.16.
        For a description of unusual items that impacted third quarter results in 2002 and 2001, see "Supplemental Information" at the end of this release.
        "Dow's results this quarter fell below our earlier expectations. Although there was margin improvement in some of the basics businesses, it was not as much as anticipated primarily because of higher feedstock and energy costs," said J. Pedro Reinhard, executive vice president and chief financial officer. He also cited slower than expected improvement in September demand as a factor affecting the Company's performance relative to expectations.
        Purchased feedstock and energy costs in the third quarter were up 6 percent, more than $120 million, compared with the third quarter of 2001 and the second quarter of 2002, contrary to expectations in July that these costs would be relatively flat. The increase was more pronounced in Europe than in the United States.
        The 5 percent increase in sales in the quarter, compared with a year ago, was due to a 3 percent increase in volume and a 2 percent increase in price. The Agricultural Sciences segment recorded strong volume gains, due in part to higher sales of acquired products and late season sales in North America. Volume in the remaining segments, excluding Hydrocarbons & Energy, was up about
1 percent compared with last year. Prices were up in the basics segments, with Plastics showing the first year-over-year gain since the third quarter of 2000. Prices in the Performance businesses were flat to slightly down. On a geographic basis, prices increased in the U.S. and Europe, but declined in the rest of the world, primarily due to weaker economic conditions in Latin America. Overall, price increases were more than offset by higher feedstock and energy costs, resulting in overall margin compression.
        EBIT increased 12 percent from a year ago to $433 million, excluding unusual items in both periods. The Agricultural Sciences segment posted improved EBIT, excluding unusuals, due to increased volume and improved productivity. In Performance Plastics and Performance Chemicals, EBIT declined 28 percent, as these businesses were not able to offset the higher feedstock and energy costs.
        The Plastics segment achieved substantial EBIT gains on higher margins, as prices moved up from the historically low levels of early 2002. In the Chemicals segment, EBIT declined by $19 million from the same quarter last year, with strong gains in ethylene oxide/ethylene glycol being more than offset by lower results in key chlor-alkali products and other chemicals.
        According to Reinhard, the outlook for the fourth quarter is challenging because of current geopolitical uncertainty and its impact on the volatility of feedstock and energy costs. "Fourth quarter results will depend on whether improved volumes can offset anticipated margin contraction, primarily in the basics," he said. Dow expects that earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002 will be better than the fourth quarter of last year.
        "The lack of market momentum in September highlighted the challenges Dow faces for the rest of this year and into 2003," said Reinhard. "Therefore, Dow's Corporate Operating Board is announcing significant steps to improve Dow's earnings and cash flow."
        Effective immediately, Dow intends to implement the following steps:
 - 
Decrease 2003 capital spending by 20 percent from 2002 levels;
 - 
Intensify efforts on supply chain optimization, improving cash flow through inventory reduction, reduced logistics costs, and savings in raw material purchases; and
 - 
Cut other costs and expenses through reinforced efforts on cost reduction.
        "Through these measures, Dow expects to improve cash flow by more than $1 billion as we continue to focus on ways to enhance our competitive position and maximize long-term shareholder value," said Reinhard.
        The Company will host a live audio Webcast of its earnings conference call with investors to discuss its business results and outlook at 10 a.m. Eastern time today on www.dow.com. A replay of the Webcast will be available on Dow's Web site until mid-November.
        Dow is a leading science and technology company that provides innovative chemical, plastic and agricultural products and services to many essential consumer markets. With annual sales of $28 billion, Dow serves customers in more than 170 countries and a wide range of markets that are vital to human progress, including food, transportation, health and medicine, personal and home care, and building and construction, among others. Committed to the principles of sustainable development, Dow and its approximately 50,000 employees seek to balance economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
        Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized. The Company
assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
Supplemental Information
        The following tables show the impact of the unusual items recorded in the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2002 and 2001 on earnings (loss) before interest, income taxes and minority interests ("EBIT"); net income (loss); and earnings (loss) per common sharediluted.
Description of Unusual ItemsThird Quarter of 2002 and 2001
        Results in the third quarter of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional merger-related integration costs of $6 million, additional merger-related severance of $21 million, and severance related to a workforce reduction program at Dow AgroSciences of $5 million. These costs are shown on the income statement as "Merger-related expenses and restructuring."
        In the third quarter of 2001, earnings were impacted by additional merger-related expenses of $46 million, a charge of $69 million for purchased in-process research and development costs associated with the acquisition of Rohm and Haas' agricultural chemicals business, a $6 million reinsurance Company loss on the World Trade Center ("WTC"), and an $11 million restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by Dow Corning.
Description of Unusual ItemsYear-to-Date 2002 and 2001
        Results in the first three quarters of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by: additional merger-related expenses and restructuring of $55 million, a $10 million restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, goodwill impairment losses of $16 million related to investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, and a net after-tax gain of $67 million related to the adoption of two new accounting standards (SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets").
        In the first nine months of 2001, earnings were impacted by: a special charge of $1,454 million for costs related to the Union Carbide merger, a charge of $69 million for purchased in-process research and development costs associated with the acquisition of Rohm and Haas' agricultural chemicals
business, a $6 million reinsurance Company loss on the WTC, an $11 million restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by Dow Corning, a gain of $266 million on the sale of stock in Schlumberger Ltd, and an after-tax transition adjustment gain of $32 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY3Q02 EARNINGS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Note A)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(1)
The reconciliation between "Earnings (Loss) before interest, income taxes and minority interests ("EBIT")" and "Income (Loss) before income taxes and minority interests" is shown below:
End of Dow Chemical 3Q02 Earnings Release
QuickLinks
EXHIBIT 99.1
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Operating Segments and Geographic Areas


