FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20020725130152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 5. Other Events.
The Dow Chemical Company issued a press release on July 25, 2002, announcing results for the second quarter of 2002.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
99.1
Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on July 25, 2002, announcing results for the second quarter of 2002.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 5. Other Events.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.1
July 25, 2002
 - 
Sales were $7.2 billion, a decline of 2 percent from a year ago, with an 8 percent increase in volume and a 10 percent decrease in price.
 - 
Earnings per share were $0.28, excluding unusual items, down from a year ago, but showing a substantial improvement versus the first quarter of 2002.
 - 
Despite a margin compression of $280 million between price and feedstock and energy costs, EBIT, excluding unusual items, declined only $23 million versus a year ago, due to strong volume gains and cost reduction efforts.
Review of Second Quarter Results
        The Dow Chemical Company reported second quarter sales of $7.2 billion, a decline from $7.3 billion a year ago. Excluding unusual items, earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interests (EBIT) were $559 million, net income was $252 million and earnings per share were $0.28. Reported earnings per share were $0.26.
        For a description of unusual items that impacted second quarter results in 2002 and 2001, see "Supplemental Information" at the end of this release.
        Margin compression continued with price declines outpacing lower feedstock and energy costs by $280 million. Stronger gains in volume and continued productivity improvements helped the company mitigate the impact of this margin compression, as EBIT declined only $23 million from a year ago, excluding unusual items in both periods.
        Noting that results were substantially better than the first quarter of 2002, J. Pedro Reinhard, executive vice president and chief financial officer, commented that the industry has begun to show signs of improvement from trough level pricing. "We're pleased that Dow's earnings are beginning to recover, reflecting some of the economic improvement which helped our volume growth. The company continues to benefit from its aggressive focus on productivity improvements and on capturing the synergies from the Union Carbide merger and other acquisitions."
        Dow's second quarter sales declined 2 percent, compared with a year ago, due to an 8 percent rise in volume and a 10 percent decrease in price. Volume was up substantially in nearly all segments, led by double-digit gains in Plastics, Chemicals and Agricultural Sciences. Volume rose in all geographic areas, most notably in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe. This broad-based volume improvement was the largest year-over-year quarterly gain since the third quarter of 2000.
        Price decreased in all segments, compared with a year ago, with the sharpest declines in the Chemicals and Plastics segments. It is worth noting, however, that price rose 6 percent versus the first quarter of 2002, as margins started to recover from historically low levels.
        In the performance segments, EBIT, excluding unusual items, increased by 7 percent from a year ago, due primarily to strong volume gains. Agricultural Sciences results reflected the full integration of Rohm and Haas' agricultural chemicals business, which was acquired in June of last year. In Performance Plastics and Performance Chemicals, EBIT improved despite the impact of lower prices that outpaced the reduction in feedstock and energy costs. Both segments benefited from strengthening demand in the housing and automotive industries, as well as from volume gains from recent acquisitions.
        EBIT in the basics segments rose 38 percent from a year ago, benefiting from strong volume gains, cost synergies and lower feedstock and energy costs, which more than offset the impact of significant price declines. Although Chemicals and Plastics experienced price declines of 21 and 14 percent, respectively, versus a year ago, Plastics EBIT rose substantially compared with the first quarter of 2002, due to a number of price increases that were implemented during the second quarter.
        Commenting on the outlook for the remainder of the year, Reinhard said, "We expect overall economic activity to continue its improvement in the third quarter. Dow's results should benefit from upward price momentum, as feedstock and energy costs remain stable."
        Dow estimates earnings for the third quarter will be substantially better than the third quarter of last year and may show an improvement from results in the second quarter of this year.
        The company will host a live audio Webcast of its earnings conference call with investors to discuss its results and business outlook at 10 a.m. EDT today on www.dow.com.
        Dow is a leading science and technology company that provides innovative chemical, plastic and agricultural products and services to many essential consumer markets. With annual sales of $28 billion, Dow serves customers in more than 170 countries and a wide range of markets that are vital to human progress, including food, transportation, health and medicine, personal and home care, and building and construction, among others. Committed to the principles of sustainable development, Dow and its approximately 50,000 employees seek to balance economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
        Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the company's expectations will be realized. The company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
Supplemental Information
        The following information summarizes the impact of unusual items on EBIT, net income and earnings per share for 2002 and 2001, on a second quarter and year-to-date basis.
Description of Unusual ItemsSecond Quarter of 2002 and 2001
        Results in the second quarter of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional pretax merger-related expenses of $10 million and a $10 million pretax restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, Dow's joint venture with Honeywell, reflected in "Equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates" in the Performance Plastics segment.
        In the second quarter of 2001, earnings were impacted by additional pretax merger-related expenses of $24 million.
Description of Unusual ItemsYear-to-Date 2002 and 2001
        Results in the first half of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional pretax merger-related expenses of $23 million, a $10 million pretax restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, pretax goodwill impairment losses of $16 million related to investments in nonconsolidated affiliates and a net after-tax gain of $67 million related to the adoption of two new accounting standards (SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets").
        In the first half of 2001, earnings were impacted by a pretax special charge of $1.4 billion for costs related to the Union Carbide merger, a pretax gain of $266 million on the sale of stock in Schlumberger Ltd. and an after-tax transition adjustment gain of $32 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY  2Q02 EARNINGS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Note A)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
End of Dow Chemical 2Q02 Earnings Release
QuickLinks
EXHIBIT 99.1
Dow Reports Second Quarter Earnings Second Quarter of 2002 Highlights
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Operating Segments and Geographic Areas
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Sales Volume and Price by Operating Segment and Geographic Area


