FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20031023123531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.1
October 23, 2003
 - 
Sales were $8.0 billion, an increase of 13 percent from third quarter 2002 sales of $7.1 billion, with an 8 percent increase in price and a 5 percent increase in volume.
 - 
Net income rose to $332 million, compared with $128 million a year ago, an increase of more than 150 percent.
 - 
Dow reported earnings of $0.36 per share, compared with $0.14 per share a year ago, an improvement of more than 150 percent.
 - 
A continued focus on significant cost reduction and productivity improvements contributed strongly to results.
For additional information, see Supplemental Information following the text of this release.
Review of Third Quarter Results
        The Dow Chemical Company today reported sales of $8.0 billion for the third quarter of 2003, compared with $7.1 billion a year ago. Net income was $332 million, compared with $128 million a year ago. Earnings per share were $0.36, compared with $0.14 per share a year ago, an increase of more than 150 percent.
        "Dow had a substantial improvement in third quarter results, in spite of a greater than 20 percent increase in feedstock and energy costs compared with the third quarter of last year," said J. Pedro Reinhard, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Volume growth was broad-based across geographies and businesses, and when coupled with price improvements and a continued focus on significant cost reductions
,
the result was markedly better earnings and cash flow."
        Sales were up 13 percent, compared with the third quarter of 2002, with an 8 percent increase in price and a 5 percent increase in volume. Prices were up in all segments and geographic areas, with the strongest gains in Asia Pacific and Latin America. Volume was up in most segments and in all geographic areas, led by double-digit growth in Asia Pacific.
        Purchased feedstock and energy costs in the third quarter rose $465 million, compared with third quarter 2002. Year to date, feedstock and energy costs were almost $2.4 billion higher than in the same nine-month period last year.
        In the combined performance segments, earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interests ("EBIT") increased approximately 65 percent, compared with the third quarter of last year. Performance Plastics results were strengthened by improved sales and EBIT in most businesses. Fabricated Products showed increases due in part to strong home building trends in North America. Polyurethanes benefited from strong demand for MDI in rigid foam applications, as well as from continued growth in Polyurethane Systems. Within Performance Chemicals, Emulsion Polymers was particularly strong, posting improved sales and EBIT, compared with the same quarter last year, in spite of weaker demand within the global advertising and carpet manufacturing industries. Agricultural Sciences posted solid results in what is typically a seasonally slow quarter. Sales in this segment increased 13 percent, and EBIT showed substantial improvement, with strong volume growth in key products around the world. Growth in spinosad insect control products was supported by new registrations in Asia Pacific and in Europe.
        Overall EBIT in the basics segments improved 18 percent from last year
,
despite substantially higher feedstock and energy costs. Plastics sales increased 13 percent, with higher prices and volume. Polyethylene volume was particularly strong in Europe and Latin America. Chemicals sales rose 20 percent, compared with the same quarter last year, due to overall higher price and volume. Ethylene glycol had a very strong quarter, with double-digit gains in both price and volume, compared with the same quarter last year. Chlor-vinyls faced continued challenges from higher natural gas costs and weakness in caustic demand from the pulp and paper industry.
        Feedstock and energy costs remained high and volatile during the third quarter, resulting in margin compression as prices moved down compared with the second quarter of 2003, particularly in the basics businesses. Volume, however, continued to improve, up 5 percent when compared with the second quarter, excluding the Agricultural Sciences segment which experienced a typical seasonal decline.
        "While we expect that the demand for chemicals should increase with improving economic conditions, high and volatile feedstock and energy costs and continued pressure on prices leave the profit outlook for the fourth quarter uncertain," according to Reinhard. "With possible margin compression and a normal seasonal slowdown, it will be a real challenge for us to match third quarter results in the fourth quarter. However, we are confident that earnings will be substantially better than fourth quarter a year ago as we continue to focus on disciplined cost control measures."
        
See segment information at the end of this release for reconciliation between EBIT and "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders."
Upcoming Webcast:
        Dow will host a live Webcast of its third quarter earnings conference call with investors to discuss its results, business outlook and other matters
today at 10 a.m. EDT
on www.dow.com.
About Dow
        Dow is a leading science and technology company that provides innovative chemical, plastic and agricultural products and services to many essential consumer markets. With annual sales of $28 billion, Dow serves customers in more than 170 countries and a wide range of markets that are vital to human progress, including food, transportation, health and medicine, personal and home care, and building and construction, among others. Committed to the principles of sustainable development, Dow and its approximately 50,000 employees seek to balance economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
        
Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
Supplemental Information
        The following tables show the impact of certain items recorded in the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2003 and 2002.
Description of Certain Items Affecting Results:
Third Quarter of 2002
        Results in the third quarter of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional merger-related integration costs of $6 million, additional merger-related severance of $21 million, and severance related to a workforce reduction program at Dow AgroSciences of $5 million. These costs are shown on the income statement as "Merger-related expenses and restructuring."
Year-to-Date 2003 and 2002
        In the first nine months of 2003, earnings were impacted by an after-tax charge of $9 million related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."
        Results in the first nine months of 2002 were impacted by: additional merger-related expenses and restructuring of $55 million, goodwill impairment losses of $16 million related to investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, a $10 million restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, and a net after-tax gain of $67 million related to the adoption of two new accounting standards (SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets").
(1)
Impact on "Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests"
(2)
Impact on "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders"
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY3Q03 EARNINGS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Note A)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(1)
Dow uses "Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes and Minority Interests" ("EBIT") as its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes. EBIT includes all operating items relating to the businesses and excludes items that principally apply to the Company as a whole. A reconciliation of EBIT to "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders" is provided below:
End of Dow Chemical 3Q03 Earnings Release
QuickLinks
Dow Reports More Than 150% Increase in Earnings for Third Quarter of 2003
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries Operating Segments and Geographic Areas
Sales Volume and Price by Operating Segment and Geographic Area


