FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20030724101408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.1
July 24, 2003
 - 
Sales were $8.2 billion, an increase of 14 percent from second quarter 2002 sales of $7.3 billion, with a 16 percent increase in price partially offset by a 2 percent decrease in volume.
 - 
EBIT* was $799 million, compared with $539 million in the second quarter of 2002, with substantial gains in almost all operating segments.
 - 
Dow reported earnings of $0.43 per share, a 65 percent improvement from $0.26 per share a year ago.
 - 
Substantial cost reductions and improved prices helped to offset a $700 million increase in feedstock and energy costs, compared to a year ago.
*
For additional information, see Supplemental Information following the text of this release. See segment information at the end of this release for reconciliation between EBIT and "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders".
Review of Second Quarter Results
        The Dow Chemical Company reported sales of $8.2 billion for the second quarter of 2003, compared with $7.3 billion a year ago. Earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interests (EBIT) were $799 million. Net income was $393 million. Earnings per share were $0.43, compared with $0.26 per share a year ago, an increase of 65 percent.
        "In spite of the huge challenges faced by industry in the second quarterpersistently high feedstock and energy costs and global geopolitical and economic uncertaintyDow has responded well," said J. Pedro Reinhard, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "This is primarily due to the Company's focus on the financial discipline implemented since the beginning of the year. Excellent progress has been made on expense reduction, working capital management and capital spending control."
        Sales were up 14 percent from the second quarter of 2002, with a 16 percent increase in price and a 2 percent decrease in volume. Second quarter volume did not show its typical seasonal improvement due to overall economic uncertainty, particularly in Asia Pacific. Feedstock and energy costs remained at high levels, increasing by around $700 million in the second quarter, compared to a year ago. Contributing to the Company's earnings improvement, Agricultural Sciences posted record results for the quarter. Additionally, earnings from the Company's joint ventures were up, compared to a year ago.
        Performance Plastics and Performance Chemicals continued to perform well under adverse conditions. EBIT for these two segments improved by 12 percent as a result of improved prices and cost control efforts, despite higher feedstock and energy costs. Although construction activity in the United States was delayed due to a wet spring, causing volume to be flat, sales improved in Fabricated Products due to increased pricing. Dow Automotive faced challenging industry conditions as well, but volume was down only 3 percent as this business benefited from its strong positions in North America and Europe. Emulsion Polymers posted the strongest sales gains in the Performance Chemicals segment due to pricing improvement and the leveraging of its global position with customers in the paper coating industry.
        Agricultural Sciences had a record quarter, with sales increasing 5 percent from the second quarter of 2002. Sales gains were achieved in most geographic areas. Strong increases in sales came from products acquired in recent years. Insecticides growth was led by strong performance for spinosad insect control products. Overall EBIT improved 23 percent from the second quarter of 2002, showing the benefit of restructuring efforts undertaken in recent years.
        Plastics sales increased 11 percent with higher prices more than offsetting reduced volume. Polyethylene volume was down in North America and Latin America but was slightly up in Europe and Asia Pacific. Chemicals sales rose, in spite of reduced volume, because of significant price increases in caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer and ethylene glycol. Combined EBIT in the basics segments more than doubled from a year ago, as cost control and higher prices in most businesses helped recover some of the margin lost in prior periods to higher feedstock and energy costs. Additionally, much of the increase in the Company's equity earnings was reported in the basics segments, reflecting the benefit of Dow's global position in advantaged feedstock locations.
        According to Reinhard, "Dow is focused on the factors which can be controlled. The organization has taken progressive steps for disciplined cost control, capital spending and working capital control. This commitment will continue. Under the current challenging circumstances, we are taking it quarter by quarter. We will continue to focus on implementation of the financial improvement program and working with our customers. Looking ahead to the third quarter, the organization is committed to improve its financial performance compared to last year."
Upcoming Webcast:
 - 
Dow will host a live Webcast of its second quarter earnings conference call with investors to discuss its results, business outlook and other matters
today at 10 a.m. EDT
on
www.dow.com
.
About Dow
        Dow is a leading science and technology company that provides innovative chemical, plastic and agricultural products and services to many essential consumer markets. With annual sales of $28 billion, Dow serves customers in more than 170 countries and a wide range of markets that are vital to human progress, including food, transportation, health and medicine, personal and home care, and building and construction, among others. Committed to the principles of sustainable development, Dow and its approximately 50,000 employees seek to balance economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
        Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
Supplemental Information
        Dow uses "Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes and Minority Interests" (EBIT) to measure the financial performance of its global business units and for reporting the results of its operating segments. This measure includes all operating items relating to the businesses and excludes items that principally apply to the Company as a whole. EBIT for the total Company measures the aggregate performance of the business units. Dow believes EBIT is useful to help investors assess the results of Dow's business operations.
        The following tables show the impact of certain items recorded in the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.
Description of Certain Items Affecting Results: Second Quarter of 2002
        Results in the second quarter of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional pretax merger-related expenses of $10 million and a $10 million pretax restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, Dow's joint venture with Honeywell.
Year-to-Date 2003 and 2002
        In the first half of 2003, earnings were impacted by an after-tax charge of $9 million related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."
        Results in the first half of 2002 were unfavorably impacted by additional pretax merger-related expenses of $23 million, pretax goodwill impairment losses of $16 million related to investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, a $10 million pretax restructuring charge (Dow's share) recorded by UOP LLC, and a net after-tax gain of $67 million related to the adoption of two new accounting standards (SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets").
(1)
Impact on "Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests"
(2)
Impact on "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders"
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY  2Q03 EARNINGS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Note A)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(1)
Dow uses "Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes and Minority Interests" ("EBIT") to measure the financial performance of its global business units and for reporting the results of its operating segments. This measure includes all operating items relating to the businesses and excludes items that principally apply to the Company as a whole. EBIT for the total Company measures the aggregate performance of the business units. Dow believes EBIT is useful to help investors assess the results of Dow's business operations. The reconciliation between EBIT and "Net Income Available for Common Stockholders" is shown below:
End of Dow Chemical 2Q03 Earnings Release
QuickLinks
Dow Reports Earnings Improvement of 65% for the Second Quarter of 2003


