FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20070416135322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 11, 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to terminate the employment of Mr. Romeo Kreinberg, who held the position of Executive Vice President of Performance Plastics and Chemicals for The Dow Chemical Company. Also on April 11, 2007, the Board authorized the Company to terminate the employment of Mr. J. Pedro Reinhard, an employee of the Company and a member of the Company's Board of Directors. On April 12, 2007, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors authorized removal of Mr. Kreinberg as an officer of the Company, which the Board of Directors confirmed and ratified on April 16, 2007.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 16, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company, acting upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, authorized nominating each of the current directors other than Mr. Reinhard for election to the Company's Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on Thursday, May 10, 2007, to serve for a term of one year that expires at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until their successors are elected and qualified. The nominees approved by the Board of Directors are:
Arnold A. Allemang
Jacqueline K. Barton
James A. Bell
Jeff M. Fettig
Barbara H. Franklin
John B. Hess
Andrew N. Liveris
Geoffery E. Merszei
James M. Ringler
Ruth G. Shaw
Paul G. Stern
Further, acting upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors set the size of the Board of Directors at eleven (11) directors, effective as of the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits.
99.1 Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on April 12, 2007, announcing executive terminations.
99.2 Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on April 16, 2007, announcing Dow's director nominees for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 16, 2007
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
 
By:
/S/ CHARLES J. KALIL
Name: Charles J. Kalil
Title: Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary


FOR MORE INFORMATION
:
Chris Huntley
The Dow Chemical Company
989-636-2876
The Dow Chemical Company Announces Executive Terminations
-- The Dow Chemical Company announced this morning that Pedro Reinhard, a senior advisor and member of the Board of Directors, and Romeo Kreinberg, an officer of the Company, engaged in business activity that was highly inappropriate and a clear violation of Dow's Code of Business Conduct. Reinhard and Kreinberg were involved in unauthorized discussions with third parties about the potential acquisition of the Company.
MIDLAND, MI - (April 12, 2007)
The Company took swift action: information about the misconduct was first disclosed to Dow on Tuesday, April 10; the Board of Directors was informed on Wednesday, April 11; and the employees were terminated this morning with full support of the Board.
"The values of integrity and respect for people are at the very core of our Company," said Andrew Liveris, chairman and CEO. "I think I speak for all employees when I say we are greatly saddened by the disrespect shown by our former colleagues. But we will move on to shape our future with an even greater resolve to execute our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders. We will uphold Dow's 110-year history of commitment to the highest standards of integrity, ethical conduct and corporate governance."
About Dow
Dow is a diversified chemical company that harnesses the power of innovation, science and technology to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company offers a broad range of products and services to customers in more than 175 countries, helping them to provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. Built on a commitment to its principles of sustainability, Dow has annual sales of $49 billion and employees 43,000 people worldwide. References to "Dow" or the "Company" mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted.


The Dow Chemical Company Announces Revised Nominations for Annual Meeting
Midland, MI - April 16, 2007
The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a revised slate of nominees for election to the Company's Board at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Board acted on the recommendation of the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
The nominees approved by the Board are each of the current directors, with the exception of J. Pedro Reinhard. Further, upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee, the Board of Directors set the size of the Board at 11 directors, effective as of the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Thursday, May 10, 2007 at the Midland Center for the Arts, 1801 West St. Andrews, Midland, Michigan, USA.
Proxies already returned by stockholders will remain valid and will be voted at the Annual Meeting unless revoked. Those proxies, and any proxies returned before the Annual Meeting, will be voted for the directors nominated by the Board of Directors as instructed on the proxy, except that votes will not be cast for Mr. Reinhard in light of his no longer being a nominee of the Board of Directors. Stockholders may revoke any previously delivered proxy at any time before it is voted at the Annual Meeting by sending a written revocation, by submitting another proxy on a later date, by attending the Annual Meeting and voting in person or, in the case of stockholders whose shares are voted through a bank or broker, by contacting the bank or brokerage firm.
About Dow
Dow is a diversified chemical company that harnesses the power of innovation, science and technology to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company offers a broad range of products and services
to customers in more than 175 countries
, helping them to provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. Built on a commitment to its principles of sustainability, Dow has annual sales of $49 billion and employs 43,000 people worldwide. References to "Dow" or the "Company" mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted.
For Editorial Information:
Chris Huntley The Dow Chemical Company +1 989 636 2876



