FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20081201095852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
1
 
On November 28, 2008, The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) entered into a Joint Venture Formation Agreement (the JVFA) with Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) (PIC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC).
 
The Company and PIC are already partners in several existing joint ventures, with each holding a 42.5% interest in EQUATE Petrochemical Co. K.S.C., a 42.5% interest in The Kuwait Olefins Co. K.S.C., a 50% interest in Equipolymers, and a 50% interest in MEGlobal.
 
Joint Venture Formation Agreement
 
The JVFA provides that the Company and PIC will establish a 50:50 joint venture that will be operated through K-D Petrochemicals C.V., a limited liability partnership () to be formed under the laws of The Netherlands (K-Dow).
commanditaire venootschap
 
At the closing of the transaction (the Closing), theCompany and certain of its subsidiaries will transfer by way of contribution and sale to K-Dow and its subsidiaries (the K-Dow Group), directly or indirectly, certain assets used in the research, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate and polycarbonate compounds and blends, ethyleneamines, ethanolamines, and related licensing and catalyst technologies, and K-Dow will assume certain liabilities relating thereto (the Business), in exchange for (i) a 50% equity interest in K-Dow and (ii) the payment by PIC of an initial purchase price (the Initial Purchase Price) equal to 50% of the difference between (1) $17.440 billion and (2) the sum of (A) the estimated net indebtedness of the K-Dow Group at the Closing, which is expected to be $1.0 billion, and (B) $1.4 billion, which has been agreed as the estimated amount of working capital deficit of the K-Dow Group at the Closing.  As a result, the Initial Purchase Price is estimated to be $7.5 billion, of which $4.175 billion is payable in cash at the Closing, $1.6 billion is payable in cash within three days after Closing and $1.5 billion will be payable in cash at Closing, unless PIC elects to pay such amount in fixed equal monthly installments through June 30, 2009.  The remaining $225 million of the Initial Purchase Price will be placed at Closing into an escrow account in cash pending final determination of the post-Closing EBITDA adjustment described below.
 
 
The Initial Purchase Price will be subject to three adjustments after the Closing as follows: (i) an adjustment to reflect the actual net indebtedness of the K-Dow Group at the Closing; (ii) an adjustment to reflect the difference between the target working capital and the actual working capital of the K-Dow Group at the Closing as compared to the estimated amount of working capital deficit; and (iii) a one-way adjustment in favour of PIC to reflect the difference, if any, between the amount of earnings before interest, minority interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of the Business for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 reflected in the JVFA and the amount of EBITDA to be derived from an audited income statement of the Business for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 to be prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America by the Company following the Closing
.
 
The Company and PIC have agreed to customary warranties and covenants in the JVFA.  The Company has agreed to conduct the Business in the ordinary course of business between the date of execution of the JVFA and the Closing and not to engage in
 
2
 
certain kinds of transactions during such period.  The Company has also agreed, subject to certain limitations, to indemnify PIC and K-Dow in respect of breaches of warranties and certain liabilities arising prior to the Closing, including certain environmental liabilities.  PIC has agreed to indemnify the Company and K-Dow in respect of breaches of PICs warranties.  K-Dow will agree to indemnify the Company and PIC in respect of liabilities arising in connection with the Business following the Closing, certain assumed liabilities and certain environmental liabilities.
 
Certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the Business will be transferred to K-Dow.  For three years following the Closing, K-Dow will provide such employees with benefits that are substantially similar in the aggregate to the benefits received prior to the Closing. Upon the Closing, K-Dow will assume all liabilities relating to the transferred employees accrued or incurred on and after the Closing.  In addition, K-Dow will assume pre-Closing liabilities for severance, vacation, retiree welfare and pension benefits, as they relate to the transferred employees.
 
The Closing is subject to customary closing conditions, including (i) the receipt of clearances of antitrust or competition authorities in Canada, China, the European Union and the United States, and of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (which clearances have been obtained), (ii) the accuracy of the warranties and compliance with the covenants of each party, (iii) no judgment or pending proceeding having been made by a governmental authority against either party which is or would be expected to have a material adverse effect, (iv) no material adverse change in respect of the Business having occurred after the date of execution of the JVFA, (v) the receipt of certain consents from third parties and (vi) the securing of financing by the K-Dow Group from third parties of at least $2 billion in funded debt, and $1 billion in unfunded debt in the form of a working capital facility.
 
The JVFA contains certain termination rights for both the Company and PIC, including the right of either party to terminate if the Closing has not occurred by the sixth month anniversary of the date of the execution of the JVFA, subject to an extension for another six months if certain regulatory clearances are not obtained prior to such extension. Further, the JVFA provides that upon termination of the agreement due to either a failure by a party to perform its obligations or a failure to consummate the Closing pursuant to the JVFA, the maximum amount of damages which can be claimed by either party is $2.5 billion.
 
In connection with the JVFA, on November 28 2008, theCompany and PIC entered into an Umbrella Secrecy Agreement to protect confidential business and technical information that they, K-Dow and their respective affiliates made available or disclosed to each other.
 
 
In connection with the JVFA, on November 28 2008, theCompany and PIC also entered into an Umbrella Arbitration Agreement in order to provide a mechanism for settlement of disputes arising in connection with the Transaction Documents (as defined below).  Pursuant to the Umbrella Arbitration Agreement, if a dispute is not settled by negotiations in good faith or by referral to certain designated representatives of the parties, the dispute will be resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, as modified by the Umbrella Arbitration Agreement, in London, England.
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the JVFA, theCompany and PIC have agreed to enter into certain other agreements in connection with the JVFA,including, without limitation,tax indemnity agreements, shareholders and partnership agreements, a cross-indemnity agreement, a deed of restrictive covenant, real estate leases, conveyance agreements, supply agreements, service agreements, intellectual property and technology agreements, an indemnity agreement by Union Carbide Corporation and documents relating to the transfer of the Companys direct and indirect interests in certain joint ventures forming part of the Business.
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the execution of the JVFA.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            
4
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  December 1, 2008
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
-- The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) and Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC), today announced that they have signed the Joint Venture Formation Agreement and other key definitive agreements regarding the formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals, a 50:50 joint venture that will be the leading global supplier of petrochemicals and plastics.
Midland, MI, USA and Kuwait City, Kuwait  December 1, 2008
It is expected that the new company will begin operations no later than January 1, 2009, with closing on that date as articulated in the December 13, 2007 MOU announcement.
K-Dow will be a leading global supplier of essential petrochemicals and plastics and will manufacture and market polyethylene, ethyleneamines, ethanolamines, polypropylene and polycarbonate, and will also license polypropylene technology and market related catalysts.
The signing of these documents is the critical step in the formation of K-Dow, which will immediately become a leading petrochemicals supplier globally, said Andrew N. Liveris, Dow chairman and chief executive officer.  The formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals will be a
 
Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) or an affiliated company of Dow
TM
 
Page 2 of 5
 
critical milestone in Dows transformation into an earnings growth company. This is a giant step in our strategy of growing our Basics businesses through joint ventures, reducing our capital intensity, and freeing up $9 billion in pre-tax cash proceeds to invest in our Performance businesses. We have effectively set the stage for our next major landmark  completing the proposed acquisition of Rohm and Haas in early 2009.
I am very pleased with the outcome of our due diligence and thorough preparation to launch K-Dow Petrochemicals.  The K-Dow joint venture will not only diversify Kuwaits national economy, but it will also position Kuwait as a leader on the global business stage, said Maha Mulla Hussain, Chairman and Managing Director of PIC.   Through the K-Dow joint venture, PIC, in pursuit of its long term strategy, will enter a new arena of petrochemical products based on leading global technologies.  This represents the best option for PIC to achieve a leading position in petrochemicals and to optimize growth between our connecting businesses of oil refining and basic petrochemicals while building on our long-standing, positive relationship with Dow.
The total enterprise value of the Dow businesses going into K-Dow is approximately $17.4 billion.  This equates to $8.72 billion for each shareholder.  The final proceeds of the transaction include usual adjustments of $1.2 billion, related to working capital and net debt.
Upon closing of the transaction, each shareholder plans to receive a $1.5 billion special cash distribution, paid by K-Dow.
The gross payment by PIC is expected to be approximately $7.5 billion, with the net payment of $6 billion, including the special cash distribution from K-Dow.
Dow expects to receive $9 billion in total pre-tax proceeds related to the transaction.  These proceeds include the special cash distribution from K-Dow of $1.5 billion.
Dow and PIC also announced today that two of their existing 50:50 joint ventures will be moved into K-Dow: MEGlobal, a world leader in ethylene glycol, and Equipolymers, a supplier
 
 
Page 3 of 5
 
of PET resins.  K-Dow will have estimated sales of $11 billion and with the addition of MEGlobal and Equipolymers the total annual revenue of K-Dow will be $15 billion.
The K-Dow transaction has received regulatory approvals from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European Commission, and also received clearance from the U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), but remains subject to customary closing conditions.
About the Products in the Venture
Polyethylene and polypropylene comprise more than half of world polymer demand.  Polyethylene is the most widely used of all plastics and can be found in everyday products from food packaging, milk jugs and plastic containers to pipes and liners.  Polypropylene is a versatile plastic used in fibers, packaging films, non-wovens, durable goods, automotive parts, and consumer applications.
Polycarbonate is an engineering thermoplastic used in applications such as optical media, electrical and lighting. Amines are a family of chemicals with a broad range of properties, used in various applications from wood treating and pharmaceutical processing, to coatings and consumer products. 
Monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol, collectively known as ethylene glycol, from MEGlobal are used as a raw materials in the manufacture of polyester fibers, polyethylene terephthalate resins (PET), antifreeze formulations and other industrial products. PET resins from Equipolymers are used in beverage bottles and other applications.
Webcast and Conference Call Information
Dow will host a call with investors and securities analysts today at 10:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern Standard Time.  The call will last thirty minutes.  Connection information is as follows:
Listen-only dial-in information: +1 (719) 325-4783.
Webcast Link:  
http://tinyurl.com/6pdmpc
 
 
Page 4 of 5
 
About Dow
With annual sales of $54 billion and 46,000 employees worldwide, Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company delivers a broad range of products and services to customers in around 160 countries, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. References to Dow or the Company mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted. More information about Dow can be found at .
www.dow.com
About Petrochemical Industries Company
As part of the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation family, PIC is at the heart of the national strategy to maximize the value of Kuwaits hydrocarbon resources, and is focused on increasing its petrochemical contributions.  It is focused on strategic growth inside and outside Kuwait through diversification, further use of strategic alliances, as well as pursuing successful joint ventures such as EQUATE, GPIC and TKOC.  More information is available at www.pic.com.kw.
About Kuwait Petroleum Corporation
Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC) is the state-owned entity responsible for Kuwaits hydrocarbon interests throughout the world. As part of the global energy industry, we help to supply the world with its vital oil and gas needs by exploring for, producing, refining, transporting and marketing these precious natural resources both in our home country and internationally.  More information is available at .
www.kpc.com.kw
Note:  The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 5
 
and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


