FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20090514105209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information included in Item 8.01 below regarding the Perpetual Preferred Stock (as defined below) is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
 
 
On May 12, 2009, The Dow Chemical Company (the ) completed its offering of 66,666,683 shares of common stock. As previously disclosed, certain trusts established by members of the Haas family (the ) and funds managed by Paulson & Co. Inc. (), as selling stockholders, also sold 83,333,317 shares of the Companys common stock (including over-allotment shares) in the offering. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from its sale of the 66,666,683 shares of approximately $965 million to pay a portion of its borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2008, and as amended by the First Amendment, dated as of March 4, 2009 (the ).
Company
Haas Trusts
Paulson
Term Loan Agreement
 
On May 13, 2009, the Company completed its $6 billion offering of senior notes, consisting of $1,750,000,000 principal amount of 7.60% Notes due 2014 (the ), $1,903,032,000 principal amount of 8.55% Notes due 2019 (the ) and $1,000,000,000 principal amount of 9.40% Notes due 2039 (the ). The Haas Trusts and Paulson, as selling noteholders, also sold $1,346,968,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes in the offering. The Company intends to use its net proceeds of approximately $4.6 billion to repay certain portions of existing indebtedness, including a portion of the Companys borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement.  The forms of the 2014 Notes, the 2019 Notes and the 2039 Notes are attached as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into this Report and the Companys registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-140859) (the ).
2014 Notes
2019 Notes
2039 Notes
Registration Statement
 
The shares of the Companys common stock and the 2019 Notes sold by the Haas Trusts and Paulson in the offerings described above were issued to such parties pursuant to the purchase agreement, dated May 5, 2009 (the ), among the Company, the Haas Trusts and Paulson, in consideration for the Companys repurchase of all of their shares of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, series B, having an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the ) at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  As of May 13, 2009, all outstanding shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock have been canceled.  The material terms of the Purchase Agreement were previously disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2009, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Purchase Agreement
Perpetual Preferred Stock
 
Additionally, on May 13, 2009, the Company sold 36,698,005 shares of the Companys common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $552,528,833.08 to the employee stock ownership plan component (the ) of The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan (the ), pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the ), dated May 11, 2009, between the Company and Fidelity Management Trust Services (), as trustee of a trust established under the Dow 401(k) Plan.  In connection with the acquisition by the Company of Rohm and Haas Company (), which closed on April 1, 2009, the Rohm and Haas Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan (the ) received cash proceeds (the ) in respect of the unallocated shares of Rohm and Haas common stock that were held in the suspense account under the ROH ESOP trust at the closing.  The ROH ESOP was then merged into the ESOP under the Dow 401(k) Plan.  Under the provisions of the Dow 401(k) Plan, Fidelity was required to use the Merger Proceeds to purchase shares of the Companys common stock (unless it would violate the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended () to do so).  An independent fiduciary/investment manager was appointed as the fiduciary and investment manager of the Dow 401(k)
ESOP
Dow 401(k) Plan
Stock Purchase Agreement
Fidelity
Rohm and Haas
ROH ESOP
Merger Proceeds
ERISA
 
2
 
Plan for the sole purpose of purchasing the Companys common stock on behalf of the Dow 401(k) Plan in accordance with the requirements of ERISA.  In order to effectuate the purchase of the Companys common stock, the independent fiduciary/investment manager directed Fidelity to purchase the Companys common stock on behalf of the Dow 401(k) Plan using the Merger Proceeds pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement.  The shares of common stock purchased by the ESOP trust, which were treasury shares of the Company, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Registration Statement. Those shares will be allocated to eligible participants in the Dow 401(k) Plan from time to time in accordance with the terms of the plan.
 
The number of shares of the Companys outstanding common stock for accounting purposes and the calculation of the Companys earnings per share will not be affected by the initial issuance of such shares to the ESOP trust. The shares will be counted as outstanding for accounting purposes only if and when they are allocated to participants in the Dow 401(k) Plan.  The fair market value of the shares at the time of allocation will be accounted for as compensation expense.
 
A copy of the Stock Purchase Agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Report and the Registration Statement.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  May 14, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5

Exhibit 1.1
THIS PLAN STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT (Agreement) is made this 11 day of May, 2009, between THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY (the Company) and FIDELITY MANAGEMENT TRUST COMPANY, not in its individual or corporate capacity, but solely as trustee (the Trustee) of THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY EMPLOYEES SAVINGS PLAN TRUST (Purchaser or the Trust), a separate trust created under The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan (the Plan).
th
RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the Company sponsors the Plan; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to an agreement (the Trust Agreement) between  Fidelity Management Trust Company  and the Company, the Trustee serves as a  trustee of the Plan in accordance with the Trust Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Plan includes a leveraged employee stock ownership plan component (LESOP Component); and
WHEREAS, the LESOP Component includes a suspense account (Suspense Account) which holds $552,528,842.34in cash and short term investments (the Suspense Account Cash); and
 
WHEREAS, Section 4.1 of the Plan Document,  and the Trust Agreement, provide that the Plan shall purchase shares (Shares) of common stock of the Company using the $552,528,842.34Suspense Account Cash no later than 90 days following April 1, 2009, or such later date as set forth in Section 4.1 of the Plan ; and
 
WHEREAS, the named fiduciary (Named Fiduciary) for the Plan is the Benefits Governance and Finance Committee of The Dow Chemical Company (BGFC); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to an amendment to the Trust Agreement, the Trustee shall be directed by the Named Fiduciary or an investment manager appointed by the Named Fiduciary, with respect to the purchase of the Shares; and
WHEREAS, BGFC, as the named fiduciary for the Plan, appointed Independent Fiduciary Services, Inc. (IFS) in accordance with section 402(c)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) to serve as a fiduciary and investment manager of the Plan within the meaning of section 3(21) of  ERISA pursuant to an Investment Manager Engagement Agreement by and Among The Dow Chemical Company, the Benefits Governance and Finance Committee of The Dow Chemical Company and Independent Fiduciary Services Inc., executed on March 12, 2009 (Investment Manager Engagement Agreement) with authority and responsibility to direct the Trustee to purchase shares (Shares) of common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share, (the Common Stock) using the Suspense Account
 
 
Cash as required by the Plan unless IFS determines that proceeding with such purchases would violate ERISA; and
WHEREAS, IFS is an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940; and
WHEREAS, IFS has determined pursuant to the Investment Manager Engagement Agreement that the purchase of 36,698,005 Shares at $15.0561 per Share by the Trustee on behalf of the Plan with the Suspense Account Cash pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Plan does not violate ERISA; and
WHEREAS, IFS, as a result, has directed the Trustee to purchase the Shares with the Suspense Account Cash; and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to sell, and Purchaser desires to purchase, the Shares, with an aggregate purchase price of $552,528,833.08, on behalf of the Plan; and
WHEREAS, to induce Purchaser to purchase the Shares, the Company wishes to make (i) various representations and warranties and (ii) certain covenants for the benefit of Purchaser.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual agreements, covenants, and undertakings contained herein, and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth below, the parties to this Agreement hereby agree as follows:
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby sells to the Purchaser, and Purchaser hereby purchases from the Company, the number of whole Shares determined in accordance with Section 2 for the Purchase Price described therein.
(a)           Upon  the Companys transfer and delivery to Purchaser of the Shares at Settlement, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Purchaser shall deliver to the Company at Settlement by wire transfer in accordance with the following wire instructions the amount of Five Hundred Fifty Two Million, Five Hundred Twenty-Eight Thousand, Eight Hundred Thirty- Three Dollars and Eight Cents ($552,528,833.08)(the Purchase Price) from the Suspense Account Cash in immediately available funds:
 
The Dow Chemical Company
[***]
[***]
[***]
 The whole number of Shares purchased hereunder shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (A) the Purchase Price by (B) $15.0561, which is the negotiated price per Share.
 
2
 
(b)          Fractional Shares.  No fractional shares of common stock will be issued to the Purchaser.
(a)          Time and Place.  The settlement (the Settlement) of the purchase of the Shares shall be held as soon as practicable, but in no event more than three days after the date of this Agreement, upon a date and at a location mutually agreed upon by the Trustee and the Company on the date hereof.  The date of the Settlement is referred to herein as the Settlement Date.
(b)          Deliveries.  On the Settlement Date, the Trustee shall deliver the Purchase Price in the manner described in Section 2(a) and the Company shall cause the Shares purchased hereunder to be issued to the Plan in the name of the Trustee through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company, unless Purchaser shall otherwise instruct.  Shares shall be delivered into the following account:
[***]
[***]
[***]
[***]
(c)          The Shares to be purchased hereunder shall, upon issuance, be the subject of a registration statement on an appropriate form that has been declared effective by the SEC, and such declaration of effectiveness shall not have been withdrawn.
The Company represents and warrants to the Purchaser as follows:
(a)          Corporate Existence and Authority.  The Company (i) is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) has all requisite corporate power to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; and (iii) has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.
(b)          Trustee Appointment.  The Company has taken all necessary corporate actions to appoint Fidelity Management Trust Company as trustee of the Trust.
(c)          IFS Appointment.  The Company has taken all necessary corporate actions to appoint IFS as fiduciary and investment manager of the Plan with the authority to direct the Trustee to enter into this Agreement.
(d)          No Conflict.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not, violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) the Companys Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws, (ii) any
 
3
 
material agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company or its assets may be bound or subject, or (iii) any law, regulation, order, arbitration award, judgment or decree applicable to the Company.
(e)          Validity.  This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and is a valid and binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally, or by general equitable principles.
(f)          The Shares.  The Shares have been duly authorized and issued, and when delivered against payment therefor as provided in Section 2 hereof, will be duly and validly issued and will constitute fully-paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock of the Company.  The Company will convey to Purchaser, on the date of Settlement, good and valid title to the Shares free and clear of any liens, claims, security interests and encumbrances, except for (i) beneficial interests accruing to Plan participants and their beneficiaries and (ii) any liens, claims, security interests and encumbrances, created or imposed by Purchaser.
(g)          Qualifying Employer Securities.         The Shares are qualifying employer securities within the meaning of Section 407(d)(5) of ERISA and can be held in the Suspense Account, subject to the terms of the Plan, to the same extent as if they were purchased with the proceeds of the LESOP note.
(h)          Consents.  The Company is not subject to any law, ordinance, regulation, rule, order, judgment, injunction, decree, charter, bylaw, contract, commitment, lease, agreement, instrument or other restriction of any kind which would prevent the Companys consummation of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby without the consent of any third party, which would require the consent of any third party to the consummation of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or which would result in any penalty, forfeiture or other termination as a result of such consummation (other than with respect to consents that have been obtained).
(i)           Financial Statements.  The financial statements of the Company filed (but excluding any financial statements that are solely furnished) with the Securities Exchange Commission (the SEC) in the Companys Recent SEC Reports were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and present fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GAAP, the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and changes in financial position of the Company as of the respective dates thereof.  Recent SEC Reports means: (i) the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008; (ii) the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009; (iii) each of the Companys Current Reports on Form 8-K filed since the end of the Companys fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (but excluding Current Reports on Form 8-K that are solely furnished rather than filed); and (iv) amendments filed to each of the preceding reports.
 
4
 
(j)           SEC Filings.  Purchaser has filed with the SEC all material forms, statements, reports and documents (the SEC Filings) required to be filed by it during its last three fiscal years and the period subsequent to the end of its last completed fiscal year to the date hereof under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. As of its filing date, each SEC Filing complied as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.  As of its filing date, each SEC Filing did not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(k)          Plan Matters.  The Plan and the Trust have been duly authorized, organized and established by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company.  The Plan is a legal and valid employee stock ownership plan within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) and ERISA Section 407(d)(6), is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code, and the Trust is intended to be exempt from taxation under Section 501(a) of the Code, and has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS).
 
The Trustee represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
(a)          Trustee Existence and Authority.  The Trustee is a trust company organized and validly existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  The Trustee has all requisite power and authority to act as Trustee and exercise trust powers, including without limitation, the trust powers provided in and contemplated under the Trust Agreement.  Further, the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust and at the direction of IFS, has full power and authority under the Trust to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee on behalf of the Trust.
(b)          No Conflict.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not, violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) the terms of the Trust, (ii) any agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Trust is a party or by which the Trust or its assets may be bound or subject, or (iii) any law, regulation, order, arbitration award, judgment or decree applicable to the Trust.
(c)          Validity.  The Trustee has signed this Agreement not in its individual or corporate capacity but solely in its capacity as the  Trustee, as directed by IFS  (except that IFSs direction does not apply to this Section 5)  and this Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Trustee and the Trust and is enforceable in accordance with its provisions, except to the extent limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting creditors rights generally, or by
 
5
 
general equitable principles.  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein do not and will not require the Trustee to obtain the consent or approval of, or make any filing with, any person or public authority.
(d)          No Commissions.  The Trustee has not incurred any obligation for any finders, brokers or agents fees or commissions or similar compensation in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
(e)          Litigation and Compliance with Governmental Rules.  There are no current actions, suits, proceedings, arbitrations or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of the Trustee, threatened against the Trust.  The Trust is not subject to any court or administrative judgment, order, or decree that would reasonably be anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Trusts right to enter into the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
The Company hereby covenants and agrees with the Trustee as follows:
(a)          Plan Qualification.  The Company shall apply for favorable determination letters with respect to the matters referenced in Section 4(k) and shall make such amendments as the IRS requests within the remedial amendment period allowed by Section 401(b) of the Code and the regulations thereunder; provided that no such amendments shall have a material adverse effect on the transactions contemplated hereby.  In addition, the Company will file with the IRS any amendments to the Plan that are required with respect to the Plan within the time prescribed by law for obtaining an effective date for the amendments that is retroactive to the earliest date allowed by the IRS.
(b)          Expenses.  The Company will cause the Plan to pay the reasonable expenses of the Trustee and the Trust (including, without limitation, the fees of its legal and financial advisors) which are incurred (i) in connection with the authorization, preparation, execution, performance, negotiation and/or review of this Agreement and the documents ancillary thereto or (ii) in the performance of the Trustees duties under and with respect to the Trust and the Plan following the Settlement, except to the extent the Company pays such expenses.
The representations and warranties in this Agreement or any instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall survive until the third anniversary of the Settlement.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision under this Agreement.
 
6
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  No party shall assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party, except that the Trustee may assign its rights and obligations hereunder without consent to any successor trustee or trustees of the Trust or any successor Trust of the Plan.
(a)          Execution of Counterparts.  For the convenience of the parties, this Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same document.
 (b)         Notices.  All notices which are required or may be given pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered personally or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, or facsimile as follows:
If to the Company:
The Dow Chemical Company
2030 Dow Center
Midland, Michigan 48674
and General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Facsimile:  (989) 638-9347
Copies to:
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP
599 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10022-6069
Attention:  Joel S. Klaperman, Esq.
Facsimile:  (646) 848-8021
If to the Trust to:
Fidelity Management Trust Company
82 Devonshire Street
Boston, MA 02109
Attention:  PWI Contracts, MM1M
and to:
 
7
 
Independent Fiduciary Services, Inc.
744 Broad Street, Suite 1120
Newark, NJ 07102
Attention: Andrew Irving
Managing Director and General Counsel
Facsimile:  973.424.6419
(c)          Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with ERISA, the Code and, to the extent not preempted by Federal law, the laws of the Commonwealth  of Massachusetts.  Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under ERISA and the Code, and the regulations issued thereunder, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited or invalid under such statutes or regulations, such provision shall be unenforceable and ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
(d)          Amendments, Waivers, Discharges, etc.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a writing signed by all parties to be bound by the amendment or modification.  The failure of a party to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver by such party of any other provision or subsequent breach of the same or any other obligation hereunder.
(e)          Entire Agreement.  This Agreement contains all the terms agreed upon by the parties with respect to the purchase and sale of the Shares and, except as to the Trustees Engagement Letter, it supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements, or understandings, whether oral or written, with respect to the purchase and sale of the Shares.
(f)          Action as Trustee.  The Trustee has signed and delivered this Agreement solely as trustee of the Plan, and not in its individual or corporate capacity.  The performance of this Agreement by the Trustee, and all duties, obligations, and liabilities of the Trustee under this Agreement, will be undertaken by the Trustee only in its capacity as the trustee of the Plan.  The Trustee does not undertake any individual or corporate liability or obligation by virtue of the signing and delivery of this Agreement or by reason of the representations, warranties, and covenants contained in this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
8
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
The Trust:
Fidelity Management Trust Company, not in its
individual or corporate capacity, but
solely as the Trustee of The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan Trust acting as directed by IFS, except that such direction by IFS is not applicable to Section 5 of this Agreement
 
 The Dow Chemical Company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 

Exhibit 4.1
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (THE DEPOSITORY) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
 
7.60% NOTES DUE 2014
CUSIP NO. 260543 BW 2
ISIN NO. US260543BW21
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (herein called the Company, which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [__________________] DOLLARS (US$[__________]) on May 15, 2014, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest thereon semi-annually on each May 15 and November 15 (each an Interest Payment Date), commencing November 15, 2009 and at maturity on said principal sum, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, at the rate per annum specified in the title of this Security, or as may be adjusted pursuant to the terms hereof, from the May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on this Security, in which case from May 13, 2009, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.  Payments of such principal and interest shall be made at the office or agency of the Company in Chicago, Illinois, which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be at the principal office of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security register; , that so long as CEDE & CO. or another nominee of the Depository is the registered owner of this Security payments of principal and interest will be made in immediately available funds through the Depositorys Same-Day Funds Settlement
provided
provided
further
 
 
System.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after April 30 or October 31, as the case may be, and before the following May 15 or November 15, this Security shall bear interest from such May 15 or November 15; , that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such May 15 or November 15, then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding May 15 or November 15, to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid on this Security, from May 13, 2009.  The interest payable on any May 15 or November 15 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be paid to the person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the April 30 or October 31 (each a Record Date), as the case may be, next preceding such May 15 or November 15, and the interest payable at maturity will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable.
provided
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
This Security shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY has caused this instrument to be signed by facsimile by its duly authorized representative.
Dated: May 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes Due 2014 R-[__]
 
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
7.60% NOTES DUE 2014
Section 1.  .  This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the Securities), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2008 (the Indenture), between The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (herein called the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the Securities of the series designated on the face hereof.
General
Section 2.  .  The interest rate payable on this Security shall be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys (as defined below) or S&P (as defined below) or, if either Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by us as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P (a substitute rating agency) downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the Securities, in the manner described below.
Interest Rate Adjustment
If the rating from Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
 
If the rating from S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on this Security has been adjusted upward and either Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), as the case may be, subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the interest rate on this Security will be decreased such that the interest rate for this Security equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentages set forth opposite the ratings from the tables above in effect immediately following the increase in rating. If Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to Baa3 (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher, and S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) increases its rating to BBB- (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher the interest rate on this Security will be decreased to the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security. In addition, the interest rates on this Security will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by either or both rating agencies) if the Securities become rated A-3 and A- (or the equivalent of either such rating, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher by Moodys and S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), respectively (or one of these ratings if the Securities are only rated by one rating agency).
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), shall be made independent of any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the interest rate for this Security be reduced to below the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security or (2) the total increase in the interest rate on this Security exceed 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
No adjustments in the interest rate of the Securities shall be made solely as a result of a rating agency ceasing to provide a rating of the Securities. If at any time fewer than two rating agencies provide a rating of the Securities for a reason beyond the Companys control, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Securities from a substitute rating agency, to the extent one exists, and if a substitute rating agency exists, for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the interest rate on this Security pursuant to the tables above (a) such substitute rating agency will be substituted for the last rating agency to provide a rating of the Securities but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (b) the relative rating scale used by such substitute rating agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by the Company and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the applicable table above with respect to such substitute rating agency, such ratings will be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moodys or S&P, as applicable, in such table and (c) the interest rate on this Security will increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such substitute rating agency in the applicable table above (taking into account the provisions of clause (b) above) (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other rating
 
6
 
agency). For so long as only one rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, any subsequent increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Securities necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by the agency providing the rating shall be twice the percentage set forth in the applicable table above. For so long as none of Moodys, S&P or a substitute rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, the interest rate on this Security will increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect from the first day of the interest period commencing after the date on which a rating change occurs that requires an adjustment in the interest rate. If Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof) changes its rating of the Securities more than once during any particular interest period, the last change by such agency will control for purposes of any interest rate increase or decrease with respect to the Securities described above relating to such rating agencys action.
 
If the interest rate payable on this Security is increased as described above the term interest, as used with respect to this Security, will be deemed to include any such additional interest unless the context otherwise requires.
Section 3.  .  (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, the Securities are not redeemable prior to maturity.
Redemption; Sinking Fund
(b)       The Securities are redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(i)           100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed on that redemption date; and
 
(ii)          the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities being redeemed on that redemption date (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 50 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Securities that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Record Date according to this Security and the Indenture.
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
7
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Quotation Agent means any Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer means (i) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a Primary Treasury Dealer),the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
(c)       The Securities will not be subject to any sinking fund.
(d)       The Company will mail a notice of any redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder; that such notice of redemption may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of the Securities. Once notice of redemption is mailed, the Securities called for redemption will become due and payable on the redemption date and at the applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
provided
Section 4.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a)       If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as provided in Section 3 above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 and no Security of a principal amount of $2,000 or less will be repurchased in part) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the
 
8
 
aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to the date of purchase.
(b)       Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase Securities on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
(c)        The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4 by virtue of such conflict.
(d)       On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(i)           accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities (in integral multiples of $1,000) properly tendered pursuant to the aforementioned offer;
(ii)          deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
(iii)         deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being purchased by the Company.
(e)       The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the purchase price for the Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered; provided, that each new Security will be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f)        The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Securities upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the
 
9
 
Company and such third party purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
(g)       The following terms for purposes of this Section 3 shall have the respective meanings specified below:
Below Investment Grade Rating Event means the rating on the Securities is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
Change of Control means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1)          the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries;
(2)          the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Companys Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3)          the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or
 
10
 
exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent Company of the Surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4)          the first day on which a majority of the members of the Companys Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5)          the adoption of a plan relating to the Companys liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect Holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the Holders of the Companys Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (z) immediately following that transaction, no person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
 Change of Control Repurchase Event means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Continuing Directors means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Companys Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Fitch means Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Investment Grade means a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch), Baa3 or better by Moodys (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moodys) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Moodys means Moodys Investors Service Inc.
Rating Agency means (1) each of Fitch, Moodys and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moodys or S&P, as the case may be.
S&P means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
 
11
 
Voting Stock means, with respect to any person, capital stock of any class or kind the Holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Section 5.  .  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
Section 6.  .  The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Modifications and Waivers; Obligation of the Company Absolute
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
Section 7.  .  The Securities are issuable in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Authorized Denominations
Section 8.  .  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the securities registrar (which shall initially be the Trustee, Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602 (Attention:  Corporate Trust Department) or at such other address as it may designate as its principal corporate trust office in the City of Chicago), duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and
Registration of Transfer
 
12
 
of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
This Security is exchangeable only if (x) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for certificated Securities in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which with the passage of time or the giving of notice would become an Event of Default, with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing, provided that the definitive Securities so issued in exchange for this permanent Security shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this permanent Security to be exchanged, and provided further that, unless the Company agrees otherwise, Securities of this series in certificated registered form will be issued in exchange for this permanent Security, or any portion hereof, only if such Securities in certificated registered form were requested by written notice to the Trustee or the Securities Registrar by or on behalf of a person who is beneficial owner of an interest hereof given through the Holder hereof.  Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this permanent Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in certificated registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Section 9.  .  Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Owners
Section 10.  .  No recourse for the payment of the principal or interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or any Supplemental Indenture thereto or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation of either of them, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation of either of them, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule or law or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
No Recourse Against Certain Persons
Section 11.  .  The Indenture with respect to any series will be discharged and cancelled except for certain Sections thereof, subject to the terms of the Indenture, upon payment
Defeasance
 
13
 
of all of the Securities of such series or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of cash or U.S. Government Obligations (or a combination thereof) sufficient for such payment in accordance with Article Ten of the Indenture.
Section 12.  .  The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
Section 13.  .  All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
ABBREVIATIONS
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing ______ _____________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Exhibit 4.2
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (THE DEPOSITORY) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
8.55% NOTES DUE 2019
CUSIP NO. 260543 BX 0
ISIN NO. US260543BX04
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (herein called the Company, which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [___________________] DOLLARS (US$[___________]) on May 15, 2019, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest thereon semi-annually on each May 15 and November 15 (each an Interest Payment Date), commencing November 15, 2009 and at maturity on said principal sum, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, at the rate per annum specified in the title of this Security, or as may be adjusted pursuant to the terms hereof, from the May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on this Security, in which case from May 13, 2009, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.  Payments of such principal and interest shall be made at the office or agency of the Company in Chicago, Illinois, which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be at the principal office of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security register; , that so long as CEDE & CO. or another nominee of the Depository is the registered owner of this Security payments of principal and interest will be made in immediately available funds through the Depositorys Same-Day Funds
provided
provided
further
 
 
Settlement System.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after April 30 or October 31, as the case may be, and before the following May 15 or November 15, this Security shall bear interest from such May 15 or November 15; , that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such May 15 or November 15, then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding May 15 or November 15, to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid on this Security, from May 13, 2009.  The interest payable on any May 15 or November 15 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be paid to the person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the April 30 or October 31 (each a Record Date), as the case may be, next preceding such May 15 or November 15, and the interest payable at maturity will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable.
provided
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
This Security shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY has caused this instrument to be signed by facsimile by its duly authorized representative.
Dated: May 13, 2009
 
 
Notes Due 2019 R[__]
-
 
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
8.55% NOTES DUE 2019
Section 1.  .  This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the Securities), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2008 (the Indenture), between The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (herein called the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the Securities of the series designated on the face hereof.
General
 
Section 2.  .  The interest rate payable on this Security shall be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys (as defined below) or S&P (as defined below) or, if either Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by us as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P (a substitute rating agency) downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the Securities, in the manner described below.
Interest Rate Adjustment
If the rating from Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
 
If the rating from S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on this Security has been adjusted upward and either Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), as the case may be, subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the interest rate on this Security will be decreased such that the interest rate for this Security equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentages set forth opposite the ratings from the tables above in effect immediately following the increase in rating. If Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to Baa3 (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher, and S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) increases its rating to BBB- (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher the interest rate on this Security will be decreased to the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security. In addition, the interest rates on this Security will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by either or both rating agencies) if the Securities become rated A-3 and A- (or the equivalent of either such rating, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher by Moodys and S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), respectively (or one of these ratings if the Securities are only rated by one rating agency).
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), shall be made independent of any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the interest rate for this Security be reduced to below the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security or (2) the total increase in the interest rate on this Security exceed 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
No adjustments in the interest rate of the Securities shall be made solely as a result of a rating agency ceasing to provide a rating of the Securities. If at any time fewer than two rating agencies provide a rating of the Securities for a reason beyond the Companys control, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Securities from a substitute rating agency, to the extent one exists, and if a substitute rating agency exists, for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the interest rate on this Security pursuant to the tables above (a) such substitute rating agency will be substituted for the last rating agency to provide a rating of the Securities but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (b) the relative rating scale used by such substitute rating agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by the Company and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the applicable table above with respect to such substitute rating agency, such ratings will be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moodys or S&P, as applicable, in such table and (c) the interest rate on this Security will increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such substitute rating agency in the applicable table above (taking into account the provisions of clause (b) above) (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other rating
 
6
 
agency). For so long as only one rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, any subsequent increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Securities necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by the agency providing the rating shall be twice the percentage set forth in the applicable table above. For so long as none of Moodys, S&P or a substitute rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, the interest rate on this Security will increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect from the first day of the interest period commencing after the date on which a rating change occurs that requires an adjustment in the interest rate. If Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof) changes its rating of the Securities more than once during any particular interest period, the last change by such agency will control for purposes of any interest rate increase or decrease with respect to the Securities described above relating to such rating agencys action.
 
If the interest rate payable on this Security is increased as described above the term interest, as used with respect to this Security, will be deemed to include any such additional interest unless the context otherwise requires.
 
Section 3.  .  (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, the Securities are not redeemable prior to maturity.
Redemption; Sinking Fund
(b)           The Securities are redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(i)           100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed on that redemption date; and
(ii)          the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities being redeemed on that redemption date (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 50 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Securities that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Record Date according to this Security and the Indenture.
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
7
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Quotation Agent means any Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer means (i) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a Primary Treasury Dealer),the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
(c)           The Securities will not be subject to any sinking fund.
(d)           The Company will mail a notice of any redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder; that such notice of redemption may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of the Securities. Once notice of redemption is mailed, the Securities called for redemption will become due and payable on the redemption date and at the applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
provided
Section 4.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a)            If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as provided in Section 3 above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 and no Security of a principal amount of $2,000 or less will be repurchased in part) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the
 
8
 
aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to the date of purchase.
(b)           Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase Securities on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
(c)           The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4 by virtue of such conflict.
(d)           On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(i)           accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities (in integral multiples of $1,000) properly tendered pursuant to the aforementioned offer;
(ii)          deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
(iii)         deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being purchased by the Company.
(e)           The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the purchase price for the Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered; provided, that each new Security will be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f)            The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Securities upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the
 
9
 
Company and such third party purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
(g)           The following terms for purposes of this Section 3 shall have the respective meanings specified below:
Below Investment Grade Rating Event means the rating on the Securities is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
Change of Control means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1)           the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries;
(2)           the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Companys Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3)           the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or
 
10
 
exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent Company of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4)           the first day on which a majority of the members of the Companys Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5)           the adoption of a plan relating to the Companys liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect Holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the Holders of the Companys Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (z) immediately following that transaction, no person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
 Change of Control Repurchase Event means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Continuing Directors means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Companys Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Fitch means Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Investment Grade means a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch), Baa3 or better by Moodys (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moodys) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Moodys means Moodys Investors Service Inc.
Rating Agency means (1) each of Fitch, Moodys and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moodys or S&P, as the case may be.
S&P means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
 
11
 
Voting Stock means, with respect to any person, capital stock of any class or kind the Holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Section 5.  .  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
Section 6.  .  The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Modifications and Waivers; Obligation of the Company Absolute
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
Section 7.  .  The Securities are issuable in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Authorized Denominations
Section 8.  .  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the securities registrar (which shall initially be the Trustee, Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602 (Attention:  Corporate Trust Department) or at such other address as it may designate as its principal corporate trust office in the City of Chicago), duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and
Registration of Transfer
12
 
of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
This Security is exchangeable only if (x) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for certificated Securities in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which with the passage of time or the giving of notice would become an Event of Default, with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing, provided that the definitive Securities so issued in exchange for this permanent Security shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this permanent Security to be exchanged, and provided further that, unless the Company agrees otherwise, Securities of this series in certificated registered form will be issued in exchange for this permanent Security, or any portion hereof, only if such Securities in certificated registered form were requested by written notice to the Trustee or the Securities Registrar by or on behalf of a person who is beneficial owner of an interest hereof given through the Holder hereof.  Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this permanent Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in certificated registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Section 9.  .  Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Owners
Section 10.  .  No recourse for the payment of the principal or interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or any Supplemental Indenture thereto or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation of either of them, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation of either of them, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule or law or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
No Recourse Against Certain Persons
Section 11.  .  The Indenture with respect to any series will be discharged and cancelled except for certain Sections thereof, subject to the terms of the Indenture, upon payment
Defeasance
 
13
 
of all of the Securities of such series or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of cash or U.S. Government Obligations (or a combination thereof) sufficient for such payment in accordance with Article Ten of the Indenture.
Section 12.  .  The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
Section 13.  .  All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
ABBREVIATIONS
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing ______ _____________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2

Exhibit 4.3
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (THE DEPOSITORY) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
9.40% NOTES DUE 2039
CUSIP NO. 260543 BY 8
ISIN NO. US260543BY86
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (herein called the Company, which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] DOLLARS (US$[__________]) on May 15, 2039, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest thereon semi-annually on each May 15 and November 15 (each an Interest Payment Date), commencing November 15, 2009 and at maturity on said principal sum, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, at the rate per annum specified in the title of this Security, or as may be adjusted pursuant to the terms hereof, from the May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on this Security, in which case from May 13, 2009, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.  Payments of such principal and interest shall be made at the office or agency of the Company in Chicago, Illinois, which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be at the principal office of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security register; , that so long as CEDE & CO. or another nominee of the Depository is the registered owner of this Security payments of principal and interest will be made in immediately available funds through the Depositorys Same-Day Funds Settlement
provided
provided
further
 
 
System.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after April 30 or October 31, as the case may be, and before the following May 15 or November 15, this Security shall bear interest from such May 15 or November 15; , that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such May 15 or November 15, then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding May 15 or November 15, to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid on this Security, from May 13, 2009.  The interest payable on any May 15 or November 15 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof, be paid to the person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the April 30 or October 31 (each a Record Date), as the case may be, next preceding such May 15 or November 15, and the interest payable at maturity will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable.
provided
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
This Security shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY has caused this instrument to be signed by facsimile by its duly authorized representative.
Dated: May 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Notes Due 2039 R-[__]
 
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
9.40% NOTES DUE 2039
Section 1.  .  This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the Securities), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2008 (the Indenture), between The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (herein called the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  This Security is one of the Securities of the series designated on the face hereof.
General
 
Section 2.  .  The interest rate payable on this Security shall be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moodys (as defined below) or S&P (as defined below) or, if either Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by us as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P (a substitute rating agency) downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the Securities, in the manner described below.
Interest Rate Adjustment
If the rating from Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
If the rating from S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) of the Securities is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on this Security will increase such that it will equal the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on this Security has been adjusted upward and either Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), as the case may be, subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the interest rate on this Security will be decreased such that the interest rate for this Security equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the percentages set forth opposite the ratings from the tables above in effect immediately following the increase in rating. If Moodys (or any substitute rating agency thereof) subsequently increases its rating of the Securities to Baa3 (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher, and S&P (or any substitute rating agency thereof) increases its rating to BBB- (or its equivalent, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher the interest rate on this Security will be decreased to the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security. In addition, the interest rates on this Security will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by either or both rating agencies) if the Securities become rated A-3 and A- (or the equivalent of either such rating, in the case of a substitute rating agency) or higher by Moodys and S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), respectively (or one of these ratings if the Securities are only rated by one rating agency).
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof), shall be made independent of any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the interest rate for this Security be reduced to below the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security or (2) the total increase in the interest rate on this Security exceed 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
No adjustments in the interest rate of the Securities shall be made solely as a result of a rating agency ceasing to provide a rating of the Securities. If at any time fewer than two rating agencies provide a rating of the Securities for a reason beyond the Companys control, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Securities from a substitute rating agency, to the extent one exists, and if a substitute rating agency exists, for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the interest rate on this Security pursuant to the tables above (a) such substitute rating agency will be substituted for the last rating agency to provide a rating of the Securities but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (b) the relative rating scale used by such substitute rating agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by the Company and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the applicable table above with respect to such substitute rating agency, such ratings will be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moodys or S&P, as applicable, in such table and (c) the interest rate on this Security will increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate equals the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such substitute rating agency in the applicable table above (taking into account the provisions of clause (b) above) (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other rating
 
6
 
agency). For so long as only one rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, any subsequent increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Securities necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by the agency providing the rating shall be twice the percentage set forth in the applicable table above. For so long as none of Moodys, S&P or a substitute rating agency provides a rating of the Securities, the interest rate on this Security will increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate set forth on the face of this Security.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect from the first day of the interest period commencing after the date on which a rating change occurs that requires an adjustment in the interest rate. If Moodys or S&P (or, in either case, a substitute rating agency thereof) changes its rating of the Securities more than once during any particular interest period, the last change by such agency will control for purposes of any interest rate increase or decrease with respect to the Securities described above relating to such rating agencys action.
 
If the interest rate payable on this Security is increased as described above the term interest, as used with respect to this Security, will be deemed to include any such additional interest unless the context otherwise requires.
 
Section 3.  .  (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, the Securities are not redeemable prior to maturity.
Redemption; Sinking Fund
(b)           The Securities are redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
(i)           100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed on that redemption date; and
(ii)          the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities being redeemed on that redemption date (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 50 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Securities that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Record Date according to this Security and the Indenture.
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
7
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Quotation Agent means any Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer means (i) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a Primary Treasury Dealer),the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
(c)           The Securities will not be subject to any sinking fund.
(d)           The Company will mail a notice of any redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder; that such notice of redemption may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of the Securities. Once notice of redemption is mailed, the Securities called for redemption will become due and payable on the redemption date and at the applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
provided
Section 4.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a)           If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as provided in Section 3 above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 and no Security of a principal amount of $2,000 or less will be repurchased in part) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the
 
8
 
aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to the date of purchase.
(b)           Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase Securities on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
(c)           The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4 by virtue of such conflict.
(d)           On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(i)           accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities (in integral multiples of $1,000) properly tendered pursuant to the aforementioned offer;
(ii)          deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
(iii)         deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being purchased by the Company.
(e)           The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the purchase price for the Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered; provided, that each new Security will be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f)           The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Securities upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the
 
9
 
Company and such third party purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
(g)           The following terms for purposes of this Section 3 shall have the respective meanings specified below:
Below Investment Grade Rating Event means the rating on the Securities is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
Change of Control means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1)           the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries;
(2)            the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person or group (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Companys Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3)           the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or
 
10
 
exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent Company of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4)            the first day on which a majority of the members of the Companys Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5)            the adoption of a plan relating to the Companys liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect Holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the Holders of the Companys Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (z) immediately following that transaction, no person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
 Change of Control Repurchase Event means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Continuing Directors means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Companys Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Fitch means Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Investment Grade means a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch), Baa3 or better by Moodys (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moodys) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Moodys means Moodys Investors Service Inc.
Rating Agency means (1) each of Fitch, Moodys and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moodys or S&P, as the case may be.
S&P means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
 
11
 
Voting Stock means, with respect to any person, capital stock of any class or kind the Holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Section 5.  .  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
Section 6.  .  The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Modifications and Waivers; Obligation of the Company Absolute
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
Section 7.  .  The Securities are issuable in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Authorized Denominations
Section 8.  .  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the securities registrar (which shall initially be the Trustee, Two North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois  60602 (Attention:  Corporate Trust Department) or at such other address as it may designate as its principal corporate trust office in the City of Chicago), duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and
Registration of Transfer
 
12
 
of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
This Security is exchangeable only if (x) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for certificated Securities in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which with the passage of time or the giving of notice would become an Event of Default, with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing, provided that the definitive Securities so issued in exchange for this permanent Security shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this permanent Security to be exchanged, and provided further that, unless the Company agrees otherwise, Securities of this series in certificated registered form will be issued in exchange for this permanent Security, or any portion hereof, only if such Securities in certificated registered form were requested by written notice to the Trustee or the Securities Registrar by or on behalf of a person who is beneficial owner of an interest hereof given through the Holder hereof.  Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this permanent Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in certificated registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Section 9.  .  Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Owners
Section 10.  .  No recourse for the payment of the principal or interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or any Supplemental Indenture thereto or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation of either of them, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation of either of them, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule or law or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
No Recourse Against Certain Persons
Section 11.  .  The Indenture with respect to any series will be discharged and cancelled except for certain Sections thereof, subject to the terms of the Indenture, upon payment
Defeasance
 
13
 
of all of the Securities of such series or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of cash or U.S. Government Obligations (or a combination thereof) sufficient for such payment in accordance with Article Ten of the Indenture.
Section 12.  .  The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
Section 13.  .  All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
ABBREVIATIONS
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing ______ _____________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2


