FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20090505110045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
On April 1, 2009, The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company" or "Dow") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") to report that, on April 1, 2009 (the ""), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ""), dated July 10, 2008, among the Company, Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (""), and Rohm and Haas Company (""), Merger Subsidiary merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the ""), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide the financial statements described below, in accordance with the requirements of Item 9.01 of Form 8-K.
Closing Date
Merger Agreement
Merger Subsidiary
Rohm and Haas
Merger
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
Consent of Independent Accountants
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-3 (No. 333-140859), S-4 (No. 333-88443), and S-8 (Nos. 2-64560, 33-21748, 33-51453, 33-52841, 33-58205, 33-61795, 333-27381, 333-40271, 333-43730, 333-49183, 333-67414, 333-88443, 333-91027, 333-103518, 333-103519, 333-105080, 333-115185, 333-122932, 333-145015, 333-155074) of The Dow Chemical Company of our report dated February 27, 2009, except for the information in Note 1 insofar as it relates to the adoption of SFAS 160, , for which the date is May 5, 2009 relating to the financial statements of Rohm and Haas Company, which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of The Dow Chemical Company filed May 5, 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania May 5, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
To Management of Rohm and Haas Company:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Rohm and Haas Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for noncontrolling interests and as discussed in Notes 7 and 9, the Company adopted a new financial accounting standard for uncertain tax positions during 2007 and a new financial accounting standard for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans during 2006.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania February 27, 2009, except for the information in Note 1 insofar as it relates to the adoption of SFAS 160, , for which the date is May 5, 2009
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1: Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Business
Rohm and Haas Company was incorporated in 1917 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ROH." We are a leading specialty materials company that leverages science and technology in many different forms to design materials and processes that enable the products of our customers to work. We serve many different market places, the largest of which include: building and construction, electronics, packaging and paper, industrial and other, transportation, household and personal care, water and food. To serve these markets, we have significant operations in approximately 98 manufacturing and 34 research facilities in 30 countries. We have approximately 15,490 employees working for us worldwide.
Use of Estimates
Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In accordance with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "," which amends ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards that require that 1) non-controlling interests held by non-parent parties be clearly identified and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, separate from the parent's equity and 2) the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the non-controlling interest be clearly presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Income. SFAS No. 160 also requires consistent reporting of any changes to the parent's ownership while retaining a controlling financial interest, as well as specific guidelines over how to treat the deconsolidation of controlling interests and any applicable gains or losses. This statement is effective for financial statements issued during and after 2009. We have adopted SFAS No. 160 as of January 1, 2009. Certain reclassifications have been made to comply with the requirements of SFAS No. 160 for all periods presented.
Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
Principles of Consolidation
Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of our company and subsidiaries. We consolidate all entities in which we have a controlling ownership interest. All of our significant entities are consolidated. We have no significant contractual requirements to fund losses of unconsolidated entities. Also in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, "," we consolidate variable interest entities in which we bear a majority of the risk to the potential losses or gains from a majority of the expected returns.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
We are the primary beneficiary of a joint venture deemed to be a variable interest entity. Each joint venture partner holds several equivalent variable interests, with the exception of a royalty agreement held exclusively between the joint venture and us. In addition, the entire output of the joint venture is sold to us for resale to third party customers. As the primary beneficiary, we consolidated the joint venture's assets, liabilities, and results of operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying amount of the joint venture's assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations, were as follows:
 
We hold a variable interest in another joint venture, which we account for under the equity method of accounting. The variable interest relates to a cost-plus arrangement between the joint venture and each joint venture partner. The entity provides manufacturing services to us and the other joint venture partner, and has been in existence since 1999. We have determined that Rohm and Haas is not the primary beneficiary as a majority of the joint venture's output is sold to our joint venture partner. Therefore we have not consolidated the entity's assets, liabilities, and results of operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2008, our investment in the joint venture was approximately $56 million, representing our maximum exposure to loss. This amount is recorded in Investments and advances to affiliates in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We use the equity method to account for our investments in companies in which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, generally 20-50% owned. Accordingly, our consolidated net earnings or loss include our share of the net earnings or loss of these companies.
We account for our investments in other companies that we do not control and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, which are generally less than 20%, under the cost method. In accordance with the cost method, the assets are recorded at cost or fair value, as appropriate.
All significant intercompany accounts, transactions and unrealized profits and losses are eliminated appropriately in consolidation from our financial results.
Foreign Currency Translation
We translate foreign currency amounts into U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. The majority of our operating subsidiaries in regions other than Latin America use the local currency as their functional currency. We translate the assets and liabilities of those entities into U.S. dollars using the appropriate exchange rates. We translate revenues and expenses using the average exchange rates for the reporting period. Translation gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, except for foreign subsidiaries where earnings are permanently reinvested outside the U.S.
For entities that continue to use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency, we remeasure land, buildings and equipment, accumulated depreciation, inventories, goodwill and intangibles and accumulated amortization at their respective historical rates of exchange. We remeasure all other assets and liabilities using the appropriate exchange rates at the end of the period. Revenue, cost of goods sold and operating expenses other than depreciation and amortization are translated using the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses, including recognition of open foreign exchange derivative contracts, are credited or charged to income.
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods sold as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations includes inbound freight charges, purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, internal transfer costs, and other distribution network charges.
 
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue when the earnings process is complete. This occurs when products are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement, title and risk of loss have been transferred, collectibility is probable and pricing is fixed or determinable. The exception to this practice is for sales made under supplier-owned and managed inventory ("SOMI") arrangements. We recognize revenue for inventory sold under SOMI arrangements when usage of inventory is reported by the customer, generally on a weekly or monthly basis. Revenues from product sales are recorded net of applicable allowances.
Customer payments received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized into income upon completion of the earnings process. We account for cash sales incentives as a reduction to revenue. Certain of our customers earn cash incentive rebates when their cumulative annual purchases meet specified measurement targets per the terms of their individual agreement. We record these rebate incentives as a reduction to revenue based on the customers' progress against the specified measurement target. Non-cash sales incentives, such as product samples, are recorded as a charge to selling and administrative expense at the time of shipment.
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling fees are included in net sales, and costs we have incurred for the delivery of goods are classified as cost of goods sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
Accounts receivable result from the sale of goods or services with terms that provide for future payment. They are created when an invoice is generated and are reduced by payments. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts as a best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We consider factors such as customer credit, past transaction history with the customer, and changes in customer payment terms when determining whether the collection of an invoice is reasonably assured. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts monthly. Past due balances over 90 days and over a specified amount are reviewed individually for collectibility. Receivables are charged off against the allowance for doubtful accounts when we feel it is probable the receivable will not be recovered.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash, time deposits and readily marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Inventories
Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Approximately 35% of our inventory is determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The remainder is determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We allocate fixed production overhead and record inventory costs in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 151: "," whereby abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which they are incurred.
Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4
Land, Buildings and Equipment, and Accumulated Depreciation
The value of our land, buildings and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. The principal lives (in years) used in determining depreciation rates of various assets are: buildings and improvements (10-50); machinery and equipment (5-20); automobiles, trucks and tank cars (3-10); furniture and fixtures, laboratory equipment and other assets (5-10); capitalized software (5-7); capitalized interest (11). The principle life used in determining the depreciation rate for leasehold improvements is the years remaining in the lease term or the useful life (in years) of the asset, whichever is shorter. These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives using straight-line methods. Construction costs, labor and applicable overhead related to construction and installation of these assets are capitalized. Expenditures for additions and improvements that extend the lives or increase the capacity of plant assets are capitalized. Maintenance and repair costs for these assets are expensed as incurred. Repair and maintenance costs associated with planned major maintenance activities are expensed as incurred and are included in cost of goods sold. Replacements and betterment costs are capitalized. The cost and related accumulated depreciation of our assets are removed from the accounting records when they are retired or disposed.
 
Capitalized Software
We capitalize certain costs, such as software coding, installation and testing, that are incurred to purchase or create and implement internal use computer software in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, "The majority of our capitalized software relates to the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, which was completed in 2004.
Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use."
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to value goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets to be appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and considerations used in our analysis, the resulting change could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated results of operations and statement of position. We will continue to monitor cash flows and other factors that may trigger a future impairment in the light of the current global recession.
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "," goodwill is assigned to reporting units, which may be one level below our operating segments. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that benefits from the synergies arising from each particular business combination. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed annually, or more frequently, if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. To test for recoverability, we typically utilize discounted estimated future cash flows to measure fair value for each reporting unit. This calculation is highly sensitive to both the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit and the discount rate assumed in these calculations. Our annual impairment review is as of May 31.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the annual impairment review was completed without the identification of any impairment.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets to be appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and considerations used in our estimates, the resulting change could have a material adverse impact on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Our long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are discussed above, include land, buildings, equipment, long-term investments, and other intangible assets. Long-lived assets, other than investments, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Such circumstances would include events such as a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner the asset is being used, is planned to be used or in its physical condition, or a history of operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the asset. In addition, changes in the expected useful life of these long-lived assets may also be an impairment indicator. When such events or changes occur, we assess the recoverability of the asset by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the expected future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset's planned future use and eventual disposition of the asset, if applicable. If the carrying value of the asset is not determined to be recoverable, we estimate the fair value of the asset primarily from discounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and compare that to the carrying value of the asset. Long-lived assets are grouped at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent, generally the plant level. We utilize marketplace assumptions to calculate the discounted cash flows used in determining the asset's fair value. If the carrying value is greater than the fair value, an impairment loss is recorded. In some circumstances the carrying value may be appropriate; however, the event that triggered the review of the asset may indicate a revision to the useful life of the asset. In such cases, we will accelerate depreciation to match the revised useful life of the asset.
The key variables that we must estimate include assumptions regarding sales volume, selling prices, raw material prices, labor and other benefit costs, capital additions, assumed discount rates and other economic factors. These variables require significant management judgment and include inherent uncertainties since they are forecasting
 
future events. If such assets are considered impaired, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the asset's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
The fair values of our long-term investments are dependent on the financial performance and solvency of the entities in which we invest, as well as volatility inherent in their external markets. In assessing potential impairment for these investments, we consider these factors as well as the forecasted financial performance of the investment entities. If these forecasts are not met, we may have to record impairment charges.
Research and Development
Research and development costs include costs in connection with new product development, fundamental and exploratory research, process improvement, product applications research and product registration and technical support of current technology. We expense all research and development costs as incurred.
Litigation and Environmental Contingencies and Reserves
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business involving employee, personal injury, property damage and environmental matters. Additionally, we are involved in environmental remediation and spend significant amounts for both company-owned and third party locations. In accordance with GAAP, we are required to assess these matters to: 1) determine if a liability is probable; and 2) record such a liability when the financial exposure can be reasonably estimated. The determination and estimation of these liabilities are critical to the preparation of our financial statements. We have provided for future costs, on an undiscounted basis, at certain of these sites. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental remediation obligations generally are recognized at the point during the remedial feasibility study when costs become probable and estimable. We do not accrue for legal costs expected to be incurred with a loss contingency.
In reviewing such matters, we consider a broad range of information, including the claims, demands, settlement offers received from governmental authorities or private parties, estimates performed by independent third parties, identification of other responsible parties and an assessment of their ability to contribute as well as our prior experience, to determine if a liability is probable and if the value is reasonably estimable. If both of these conditions are met, we record a reserve. These reserves include liabilities expected to be paid out within the next 10 years. If we believe that no best estimate exists, we accrue the minimum in a range of possible losses, and disclose any material, reasonably possible, additional losses. If we determine a liability to be only reasonably possible, we consider the same information to estimate the possible exposure and disclose any material potential liability. In addition, estimates for liabilities to be incurred between 11 to 30 years in the future are also considered only reasonably possible because the chance of a future event occurring is more than remote but less than probable. These loss contingencies are monitored regularly for a change in fact or circumstance that would require an accrual adjustment.
Our most significant reserves have been established for remediation and restoration costs associated with environmental issues. We conduct studies and site surveys to determine the extent of environmental contamination and necessary remediation. With the expertise of our environmental engineers and legal counsel we determine our best estimates for remediation and restoration costs. These estimates are based on forecasts of future costs for remediation and change periodically as additional and better information becomes available. Changes to assumptions and considerations used to calculate remediation reserves could materially affect our results of operations. If we determine that the scope of remediation is broader than originally planned, discover new contamination, discover previously unknown sites or become subject to related personal injury or property damage claims, our estimates and assumptions could materially change.
We believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate reserves for both our environmental and other legal liabilities are appropriate. These estimates are based in large part on information currently available and the current laws and regulations governing these matters. If additional information becomes available, there are changes to the laws or regulations or actual experience differs from the assumptions and considerations used in estimating our reserves, the resulting change could have a material impact on the consolidated statement of operations and consolidated balance sheet.
Income Taxes
 
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to determine our current year and deferred income tax provisions to be appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and considerations used, the resulting change could have a material impact on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and their values as measured by tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
Retirement Benefits
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the assumptions and other considerations used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to be appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and considerations used, the resulting change could have a material impact on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
We adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158, "," ("SFAS No. 158") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded projected benefit obligation of a defined benefit plan as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position. SFAS No. 158 also requires employers to recognize annual changes in gains or losses, prior service costs, or other credits that have not been recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost, net of tax, through accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
Treasury Stock
Treasury stock consists of shares of Rohm and Haas stock that have been issued but subsequently reacquired. We account for treasury stock purchases under the cost method. In accordance with the cost method, we account for the entire cost of acquiring shares of our stock as treasury stock, which is a contra equity account. When these shares are reissued, we use an average cost method for determining cost. Proceeds in excess of cost are credited to additional paid-in capital.
Share-Based Compensation
We consider this to be one of the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have various share-based compensation plans for directors, executives and employees, which are comprised primarily of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock option grants. Prior to 2003, we accounted for these plans under APB Opinion No. 25, "." Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized prior to 2003 for stock options.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted the fair value method of recording share-based compensation as defined in SFAS No. 123, "("SFAS No. 123"). As a result, we began to expense the fair value of stock options awarded to employees after January 1, 2003. The fair value is calculated using the Black-Scholes pricing model as of the grant date and is recorded as compensation expense over the appropriate vesting period, which is typically three years. We also calculate and record the fair value of our restricted stock awards in accordance with SFAS No. 123. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is typically five years. Our policy is to issue treasury stock, not cash, to settle equity instruments granted under share-based payment agreements.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended SFAS No. 123. This Statement supersedes APB No. 25, "and its related implementation guidance. This Statement eliminates the prospective option we have applied under SFAS No. 148, "and requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first interim or annual period after June 15, 2005. Due to the fact that the majority of our options issued prior to January 1, 2003, the date we adopted SFAS No. 123, vested as of June 15, 2005, the revised computations did not have a material impact on our financial statements.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure,"
 
Fair Value Measurements of Financial Instruments
In the first quarter of 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and liabilities. The statement utilizes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The following is a brief description of those three levels:
: Observable inputs such as quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 1
: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
Level 2
: Unobservable inputs that reflect our own assumptions.
Level 3
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We use derivative and non-derivative instruments to manage market risk arising out of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and the U.S. dollar value of our net investments outside the U.S. These instruments are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "("SFAS No. 133") as amended.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
We have established policies governing our use of derivative instruments. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments or any instruments for which the fair market values are not available from independent third parties. We manage counter-party default risk by entering into derivative contracts with only major financial institutions of investment grade credit rating and by limiting the amount of exposure to each financial institution. Certain of our derivative instruments contain credit clauses giving each party the right to settle at market if the other party is downgraded below investment grade.
The accounting standards require that all derivative instruments be reported on the balance sheet at their fair values. For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments generally offset the changes in fair value of the hedged items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability of future cash flows related to forecasted transactions, the effective portions of hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged items are realized and recorded in earnings. When cash flow hedges are terminated early but the underlying hedged forecast transactions are likely to occur, related gains or losses are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged items occur. Any ineffective portions of the hedges are recognized in current period earnings.
Changes in the value of derivative or non-derivative instruments, which are designated as, and meet all of the criteria for, hedges of net investments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) based on changes measured on a spot-to-spot basis of exchange rates. Ineffective portions of net investment hedges are charged to earnings.
Changes in the fair values are immediately recorded in current period earnings if derivative instruments were not designated as hedges or fail to meet the criteria as effective hedges.
Cash flows resulting from our hedging activities are reported under operating activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, except for cash flows from derivatives hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries and derivatives not accounted for as hedges under SFAS No. 133, which are reported separately under investing activities.
Note 2: Acquisitions and Dispositions of Assets
Acquisitions
2008
 
In July 2008, we acquired the operations of SKC Euro Display for approximately $28 million, which included fixed assets of approximately $22 million, accounts receivable of approximately $5 million and inventory of approximately $1 million. We expect to have the purchase price allocation complete by the middle of 2009 as we are finalizing the final value of the closing balance sheet.
On July 31, 2008, our Salt segment acquired the Season-Allbrand seasoned salt product line from McCormick & Company for $15 million in cash, primarily comprised of $14 million of intangible assets, including $12 million of trade name, $2 million of customer lists and $1 million of inventory. This purchase supports the Salt segment's strategy of expanding its specialty salt portfolio.
On April 1, 2008, we acquired the FINNDISP division of OY Forcit AB, a Finnish paint emulsions operation, for approximately 52 million Euros (approximately $79 million). Based in Hanko, Finland, this former division of Forcit makes water-based emulsions used in the manufacture of paints and coatings, lacquers and adhesives in Northern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union). As part of the initial purchase price allocation, $14 million was allocated to definite-lived intangible assets primarily consisting of customer relationships.
The following table presents the initial purchase price allocation of our acquisition of FINNDISP:
On April 4, 2008, we acquired Gracel Display, Inc., a leading developer and manufacturer of Organic Light Emitting Diode materials based in South Korea for approximately $41 million. As part of the initial purchase price allocation, $5 million was allocated to definite-lived intangible assets primarily consisting of customer relationships with useful lives of five to seven years. We also recorded a charge of $1 million for acquired in-process research and development, for which technological feasibility had not yet been established. This charge is included in restructuring and asset impairments in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The following table presents the purchase price allocation of our acquisition of Gracel Display, Inc.:
The following table represents the unaudited pro forma results had the acquisitions of FINNDISP and Gracel Display, Inc. occurred on January 1, 2007 and 2008:
 
The unaudited pro forma data may not be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had the acquisitions actually been formed at the beginning of each of the periods presented, nor are they intended to be indicative of future consolidated results.
On April 16, 2008, we announced our intention to participate with a 25% interest in a joint venture with Tasnee Sahara Olefins Company of Saudi Arabia which will produce acrylic acid and related esters in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, beginning in 2011. We will invest approximately $50 million for our equity stake in the venture and its technology for making acrylic acid.
2007
On November 30, 2007, we acquired a 51% ownership interest in a joint venture formed with SKC, Co. Ltd. ("SKC") that will develop, manufacture and market advanced optical and functional films used in the flat panel display industry. The purchase price for our controlling interest in the joint venture was approximately $196 million. As part of the purchase price allocation, $22 million was allocated to definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of licensed technology of $6 million, with a useful life of 3 to 4 years, and customer relationships of $16 million, with a useful life of 7 years, and , in addition, we recorded a charge of $1 million for acquired in-process research and developmentfor which technological feasibility had not yet been established, which is included in restructuring and asset impairments in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The results of operations of the new joint venture are included in the Display Technologies segment of our Electronic Materials Group as of the fourth quarter of 2007.
,
The following table presents the purchase price allocation of our SKC joint venture:
Included in current liabilities above are Notes Payable totaling $145 million which matured and were paid off by the joint venture on December 4, 2007.
The following table represents the unaudited pro forma results as if the formation of the SKC Haas joint venture had occurred on January 1, 2006:
The unaudited pro forma data may not be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had the joint venture actually been formed at the beginning of each of the periods presented, nor are they intended to be indicative of future consolidated results.
On June 15, 2007, we acquired the net assets of Eastman Kodak Company's light management films technology business, which produces advanced films that improve the brightness and efficiency of liquid crystal displays (LCD). Of the $40 million purchase price, $9 million was allocated to intangible assets, primarily consisting of
 
developed technology, and we recorded a charge of $3 million for acquired in-process research and development, for which technological feasibility had not yet been established, which is included in restructuring and asset impairments in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The remainder of the purchase price was allocated to the tangible net assets acquired. The proforma results for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, would not be material to the Rohm and Haas Consolidated Statements of Operations for those respective periods. The results of operations of the light management films business are included in the Display Technologies segment of our Electronic Materials Group as of the second quarter of 2007.
On January 4, 2007, we completed the formation of Viance, LLC, a joint venture owned 50% by Rohm and Haas and 50% by Chemical Specialties, Inc. (CSI), a wholly owned subsidiary of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. Rohm and Haas paid CSI $73 million to create the new company, which combines the wood biocides business of Rohm and Haas and the wood protection chemicals business of CSI. The results of this joint venture are included in our Performance Materials Group segment as an equity method investment.
2006
In the second quarter of 2006, we acquired the net assets of Floralife, Inc. ("Floralife"), a top global provider of post-harvest care products for the floral industry based in South Carolina, for approximately $22 million. As part of the purchase price allocation, $14 million was allocated to intangible assets, primarily consisting of licensed technology and customer relationships, $3 million to net working capital, $3 million to fixed assets, $6 million to goodwill and $4 million to deferred tax liabilities. The intangible assets primarily consist of definite-lived intangible assets with useful lives ranging from 5 to 9 years. Prior to this acquisition, we had a royalty agreement with Floralife under which we paid Floralife for the use of certain technologies. The acquisition by Rohm and Haas is intended to expand the portfolio of our AgroFresh business to include post-harvest flowers on a global basis. The proforma results of operations for Floralife for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not material to the Rohm and Haas Consolidated Statements of Operations for those respective periods. The results of operations for Floralife are included in our Performance Materials Group business segment as of the second quarter of 2006. In January of 2007, we sold Floralife with the exception of certain technologies we will maintain to support the Performance Materials Group. This sale resulted in an immaterial after-tax gain in January 2007.
Dispositions
2008
On April 4, 2008, we divested our 40 percent equity interest in UP Chemical Company, a South Korean firm that specializes in advanced technology used in the production of leading edge semiconductor chips. As part of the transaction, we received approximately $114 million for our equity interest, reflecting a pre-tax gain of approximately $85 million. This gain is included in Share of affiliate earnings, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
2007
None.
2006
In the second quarter of 2006, we determined that the global business became an Asset Held for Sale and qualified for treatment as a discontinued operation. We have reflected this business as such in our financial statements for all periods presented. On October 1, 2006, we completed the sale of our global business, excluding that business' European operations, which was previously a business within our former Coatings reporting segment. Proceeds included $230 million, in cash, plus working capital adjustments as defined in the sale agreement. In January of 2007, we paid $9 million in closing working capital adjustments. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $1 million in the sale. The European business' operations were sold on June 30, 2007 for proceeds of $3 million. The sale resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $3 million.
Automotive Coatings
Automotive Coatings
Automotive Coatings
In accordance with EITF No. 93-17, "" we recorded certain
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for a Parent Company's Excess Tax Basis in the Stock of a Subsidiary That is Accounted for as a Discontinued Operation,
 
tax/book basis differences resulting in the recognition of income taxes of $24 million, which is included in the net loss from discontinued operation for 2006.
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, " we compared the fair value of our expected disposal asset groupings and determined that the net carrying value of one asset group was impaired by approximately $7 million pre-tax during the second quarter of 2006, which is included in the loss from the discontinued operation.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,"
The following table presents the results of operations of our discontinued operation:
Automotive Coatings
During the fourth quarter of 2006, we also reversed $6 million in tax reserves related to a previously disposed business resulting from the favorable resolution of prior year tax contingencies.
Note 3: Provision for Restructuring and Asset Impairments
Severance and employee benefit costs associated with restructuring initiatives are primarily accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 112, " Asset impairment charges are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 144, The following net restructuring charges were recorded for the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as detailed below:
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits."
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets."
Restructuring and Asset Impairments
Restructuring by Initiative
 
Restructuring reserves as of December 31, 2008 total $146 million and are included in accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The restructuring reserve balance presented is considered adequate to cover committed restructuring actions. Cash payments related to severance and employee benefits are expected to be paid over the next 18 months.
2008 Actions
For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded approximately $153 million of expense for severance and associated employee benefits, primarily associated with the elimination of 1,910 positions resulting from:
During 2008, we recorded additional severance and employee benefit charges related to changes in estimate of $2 million and $2 million for 2008 and 2006 actions, respectively.
The 2008 cost savings actions are expected to yield pre-tax savings of approximately $200 million annually beginning in 2010.
Of the initial 1,910 positions identified under the total 2008 restructuring initiatives, we increased the total number of positions to be affected by these initiatives by 3 to 1,913 positions in total. As of December 31, 2008, 344 positions have been eliminated.
2007 Actions
For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded approximately $15 million of expense for severance and associated employee benefits, primarily associated with the elimination of 201 positions as part of our on-going efforts to reposition our business portfolio for accelerated growth by exiting non-strategic business lines, as well as to improve operating excellence through productivity initiatives in manufacturing, research and development, and business services.
Reducing the effect of the 2007 charge were favorable adjustments of $5 million for severance and employee benefits due to fewer employee separations than originally anticipated related to 2005 and 2006 actions.
The 2007 cost savings actions are expected to yield pre-tax savings of approximately $21 million annually.
Of the initial 201 positions identified, we reduced the total number of positions to be affected by these initiatives by 18 to 183 positions in total. As of December 31, 2008, 133 positions have been eliminated.
 
2006 Actions
For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded approximately $26 million of expense for severance and associated employee benefits associated with the elimination of 329 positions. These charges related to the restructuring within our North American support services and Coating and Salt segments, concentrated in North America. Our management approved these restructuring actions to implement organizational alignments to support our Vision 2010 strategic plan and to further improve the efficiency of our manufacturing network. The organizational alignments included a more streamlined business structure, and deployment of resources to higher growth markets. Staffing reductions related to several of our manufacturing operations and were a direct result of changes in the execution of existing processes and productivity improvements, while support services staffing reductions were made possible as we continue to capitalize on the enhancements achieved through the implementation of our Enterprise Resource Planning System.
This charge was partially offset by $1 million of favorable adjustments to adequately reflect changes in estimates of remaining obligations related to severance payments within our global Graphic Arts business within our Packaging and Building Materials segment, actions announced in the first quarter of 2006. Additionally, there were favorable adjustments of $2 million related to severance and employee benefits due to fewer employee separations than originally anticipated offset by $2 million for lease contract obligations related to our 2005 and prior initiatives.
The 2006 restructuring actions are expected to yield pre-tax savings of $33 million annually.
Of the initial 329 positions identified, we reduced the total number of positions by 64 to 265 positions in total. As of December 31, 2008, all positions have been eliminated.
Asset Impairments
2008 Impairments
For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized $42 million of fixed asset impairment charges. These charges include $3 million of impairments due to damage at our Salt operation related to hurricane Ike. In an effort to better utilize our assets we recorded $2 million of asset impairment charges relating to the closure of two plants within the Performance Materials Group, which support the Powder Coatings and Advanced Materials businesses. Reduced market demand and productivity improvements in North America resulted in the impairment of fixed assets totaling $5 million, $3 million of which impacted the Paint and Coatings Materials business and $2 million related to the Packaging and Building Materials business. In addition, the Paint and Coatings Materials business also recorded an $8 million charge relating to the closure of a plant due to continued reductions in market demand. The Packaging and Building Materials business recorded fixed asset impairment charges of $7 million due to the transfer of select business lines and $2 million relating to the exiting of a business line. An adjustment of our infrastructure for the Electronic Materials Group, reflecting the continued shift of the business to Asia resulted in asset impairment charges of $9 million; $8 million of which resulted from exiting select business lines within Packaging and Finishing Technologies, and $1 million for the closing of a research and development site relating to Semiconductor Technologies. Further, we recorded a $1 million write-off of in process research and development relating to the Gracel acquisition within Display Technologies. Lastly, we recorded $5 million of asset impairment charges in the first quarter of 2008 associated with fixed asset write downs related to the restructuring of two manufacturing facilities due to the termination of toll manufacturing support arrangements related to a prior divestiture.
2007 Impairments
For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized approximately $24 million of fixed asset impairment charges. These charges were offset by $6 million in gains related to sales of previously impaired assets. These impairments included the $13 million write-off within our Corporate segment of our investment in Elemica, an online chemicals e-marketplace, $5 million related to our digital imaging business line within our Performance Materials Group, a $4 million impairment of in-process research and development cost within our Display Technologies segment, comprised of $3 million and $1 million relating to the Eastman Kodak Company light management films asset acquisition and SKC Haas joint venture, respectively, and a $2 million write-down of an investment in our Electronic Technologies segment to fair market value.
 
2006 Impairments
For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized approximately $3 million of fixed asset impairment charges associated with the restructuring of our global Graphic Arts business within our Packaging and Building Materials segment. This charge was offset by $1 million for sales of previously impaired assets.
In 2006, we recorded a $7 million asset impairment related to our discontinued operation. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Note 4: Other Expense (Income), net
We recorded other expense, net of $55 million in 2008. For 2007 and 2006 we recorded other income, net of $48 million and $53 million, respectively. The major categories of our other income, net are summarized in the following table:
Note 5: Fair Value Measurements
In the first quarter of 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, "" for financial assets and liabilities. This standard defines fair value, provides guidance for measuring fair value and requires certain disclosures. This standard does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 discusses valuation techniques, such as the market approach (comparable market prices), the income approach (present value of future income or cash flow), and the cost approach (cost to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). The statement utilizes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The following is a brief description of those three levels:
Fair Value Measurements,
The following describes the valuation methodologies used to measure fair value and key inputs:
 
Our population of financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value disclosures are as follows:
Counter-party Risk
We manage counter-party risk by entering into derivative contracts only with major financial institutions of investment grade credit rating and by limiting the amount of exposure to each financial institution. On a selective basis we structure our derivative contracts to allow settlement at market if the counter-party is downgraded below investment grade. As of December 31, 2008, our largest exposure on derivative contracts with any one financial institution was $14 million, and our total exposure was $36 million. Based on our credit evaluation of each institution comprising these exposures, we have determined the carrying values as of December 31, 2008 to be fully realizable upon settlement.
Note 6: Financial Instruments
We denominate our business transactions in a variety of foreign currencies, finance our operations through long- and short-term borrowings, and purchase raw materials at market prices. Accordingly, changing market prices for foreign currencies and commodities and changing interest rates materially impact our earnings, cash flows and the fair values of our assets and liabilities. Our operating and financing plans include actions to reduce, but not eliminate, the uncertainty associated with these changes including the use of derivative instruments. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Currency Hedges
We enter into foreign exchange option and forward contracts in order to reduce the risk associated with variability in our operating results from foreign-currency-denominated earnings, cash flows, assets and liabilities. We direct these hedging efforts toward three distinct currency hedging objectives:
 
During 2008, non-dollar currencies in which we transacted business were weaker by year-end, on average, compared with the prior-year period. These currencies had a $25 million favorable after-tax impact on our 2008 earnings compared with 2007, net of all currency hedging. Through the first half of 2008, the dollar continued to weaken against most currencies, reaching its weakest point by mid-year. The second half of 2008 saw the resurgence of the dollar, until at December 31, 2008, the basket of currencies in which our operations are invested was weaker against the dollar than at December 31, 2007. This was recorded as a $104 million cumulative translation adjustment loss during 2008, net of gains from net investment hedges.
Hedges entered to preserve the U.S. dollar values of anticipated non-U.S. dollar cash flows and earnings
We generally purchase options which give us the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying currencies when the cash flows denominated in those currencies are forecast to occur. In this way, the premiums paid for the options represent the maximum cost of the hedge. If, when the forecasted transactions occur, the underlying currencies have strengthened, the options become worthless and are expensed. In this case, the dollar values of the underlying forecast non-dollar cash flows and earnings are higher than anticipated. If the underlying currencies have weakened, the options are exercised and the underlying currencies are sold at the stronger historical rate, thus preserving the dollar values of the forecast non-dollar cash flows.
These contracts are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges covering portions of our twelve month forecasted non-dollar cash flows and mature when the underlying cash flows being hedged are forecast to occur. Because the options are considered highly effective hedges, the cash value less cost will be reflected in earnings when the contracts mature. These contracts are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value prior to maturity recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, a $4 million after-tax gain and a $2 million after-tax loss, respectively, was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, an after-tax gain of $3 million, and after-tax losses of $3 million and $2 million, respectively, were recorded in earnings related to foreign currency cash flow hedges that matured during the respective periods. Changing market conditions will impact the actual amounts recorded to earnings during the following twelve-month periods. Both the effective and ineffective portions of foreign currency cash flow hedges recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are classified in other income, net.
Asset and liability hedging
We contract with counter-parties to buy and sell foreign currencies to offset the impact of exchange rate changes on recognized assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, including inter-company loans. These contracts generally require exchange of one foreign currency for another at a fixed rate at a future date. These contracts have maturities generally less than twelve months. All contracts are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value recorded in other income, net. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, after-tax gains of $23 million, and after-tax losses of $30 million and $7 million, respectively, were recorded in earnings for these contracts. The impacts of these contracts were largely offset by gains and losses, respectively, resulting from the impact of changes in exchange rates on recognized assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.
Net investment hedging
We utilize foreign exchange forward and currency collar contracts together with non-dollar borrowings to hedge the dollar values of our net investments in foreign operating units in Europe, Japan and Canada. These derivative instruments and non-dollar borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. Accordingly, the effective portions of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges are recorded as part of the cumulative translation adjustment, which is part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of December 31, 2008, $223 million in after-tax losses were recorded in cumulative translation adjustment, representing the effective portions of foreign exchange losses on these hedges and non-dollar borrowings. Of this amount, $93 million in after-tax losses at December 31, 2008 was related to long-term Euro and Japanese Yen borrowings and the remainder was
 
related to exchange forward and currency collar contracts. As of December 31, 2007, $228 million in after-tax losses were recorded in cumulative translation adjustment, representing the effective portions of foreign exchange losses on these hedges. Of this amount, $98 million in after-tax losses at December 31, 2007 was related to long-term Euro and Japanese Yen borrowings and the remainder was related to exchange forward and currency collar contracts.
The total notional value of derivatives and outstanding balance of non-dollar borrowings designated as hedges of net investments outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $681 million, respectively.
Included in other comprehensive income (loss) as cumulative translation adjustment were a loss of $77 million and a gain of $27 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, all net of related hedge gains and losses.
The amounts that were considered ineffective on these net investment hedges were recorded in interest expense. Interest expense was decreased by an immaterial amount, $9 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Commodity Hedges
We use commodity swap, option and collar contracts to reduce the effects of changing raw material prices. Some of these contracts were designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The notional value of these commodity derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $14 million and $8 million, respectively. The remaining outstanding contracts at December 31, 2008, with a notional value of $66 million were not designated to receive hedge accounting treatment.
Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are a $1 million after-tax loss and an immaterial amount, respectively, which represents the accumulated market value changes in those outstanding commodity swap, option and collar contracts designated as hedges. To the extent these contracts are considered effective as hedges, changes in market value will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and upon maturity will be recorded in earnings consistent with our purchases of the underlying commodities during the following period up to twenty-four months. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, an immaterial amount, $3 million and $14 million in losses, respectively, were recorded as components of costs of goods sold with the related tax effect recorded in tax expense with respect to those commodity swap, option and collar contracts maturing during the same periods. The ineffective portions of these contracts were immaterial to earnings in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were recorded in other income, net.
Included in other income (expense) at December 31, 2008 is an $18 million loss which represents the accumulated market value changes in commodity swap, option and collar contracts not designated as hedges.
Interest Rate Hedges
To reach a desired level of floating rate debt, we utilize interest rate swap agreements to convert specific fixed rate debt issuances into variable rate debt. These interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. The changes in fair value of interest rate swap agreements are marked-to-market through income together with the offsetting changes in fair value of the underlying notes using the short cut method of measuring effectiveness. At December 31, 2008, we had no interest rate swaps outstanding.
In September 2005, we entered into a LIBOR rate lock agreement with a bank to hedge against changes in long-term interest rates in anticipation of a long-term debt issuance, a cash flow hedge. As of December 31, 2006, $7
 
million of after-tax deferred net gains on the interest rate lock are in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In conjunction with the issuance of the debt in March of 2007, the interest rate lock agreement was settled resulting in the receipt by us of approximately $11 million from the counterparty. Since the hedge was deemed effective, the $7 million after-tax gain was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the Euro 175 million notes due in March 2014. As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized balance included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is a $5 million gain.
In September 2007, we issued $250 million of notes due in March 2013 and $850 million of notes due in September 2017. In August 2007, in anticipation of the debt issuance we entered into a $350 million interest rate lock agreement designated as a cash flow hedge to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations which would impact semi-annual interest payments. In conjunction with the issuance of the debt, the interest rate lock agreement was settled resulting in a payment from us to the counterparty of approximately $10 million. Less than half a million after-tax of this value was deemed ineffective and immediately recognized in earnings during 2007. The remaining $6 million after-tax loss was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the $850 million notes due in September 2017. As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized balance included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is a $5 million loss.
In September 2007, we entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $250 million to swap the fixed rate components of the $250 million notes due in March 2013 to a floating rate based on six-month LIBOR. In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $850 million to swap the fixed rate component of the $850 million 10-year fixed rate notes due in June 2017, to a floating rate based on three and six month LIBOR. In November 2008, we terminated the total $1.1 billion of these interest rate swap contracts. The $69 million gain received from the termination of the interest rate swap contracts is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining 5-year and 9-year respective lives of the notes. As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized balance included in long-term debt is a $68 million gain.
The following tables set forth the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
(in millions)
(in millions)
 
The following tables set forth the impact of derivative instruments and related hedged items on the consolidated income statements for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
(in millions)
(in millions)
(in millions)
(in millions)
(in millions)
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
(in millions)
(in millions)
Note 7: Income Taxes
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and minority interest earned within or outside the United States are shown below:
The provision for income taxes from continuing operations is composed of:
The provision for income tax expense (benefit) attributable to items other than continuing operations is shown below:
 
Deferred income taxes reflect temporary differences between the valuation of assets and liabilities for financial and tax reporting. Details at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were:
At December 31, 2008, we had foreign net operating losses of $221 million and state net operating losses of $2,131 million, all of which substantially carry a full valuation allowance. Of these, $169 million have no expiration and the remaining will expire in future years as follows: $34 million in 2009, $18 million in 2010, $27 million in 2011, $30 million in 2012, $29 million in 2013 and the remaining balance in other years.
Deferred taxes, which are classified into a net current and non-current balance by tax jurisdiction, are presented in the balance sheet as follows:
The effective tax rate on pre-tax income differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate due to the following:
During 2008, we have recognized $2 million of foreign investment credits as a reduction of income tax expense. Deferred income taxes have been provided for the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates which have not been reinvested abroad indefinitely. Approximately $754 million, $392 million and $216 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, of net foreign subsidiary and affiliate foreign earnings have been deemed permanently reinvested abroad. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of such earnings, if any, it is not practicable to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability relating to such amounts. No accrual of United States income tax has been made for years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006 related to these permanently reinvested earnings as there was no plan in place to repatriate any of these foreign earnings to the United States as of the end of the year.
We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recorded a non-cash cumulative transition
 
charge of approximately $9 million, recorded as a reduction to beginning retained earnings (see Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity). A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
In addition, we have interest and penalties provisions associated with the above tax positions which are classified as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. There was approximately $20 million of accrued interest and penalties as of December 31, 2007 and there is $16 million of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2008. Changes in these balances are recorded in income tax expense.
As of December 31, 2008, we have unrecognized income tax benefits totaling $93 million and related accrued interest and penalties of $16 million that, if recognized, $109 million would be recorded as a benefit to income taxes on the statement of operations and, therefore, would impact the reported effective tax rate. During 2007, we concluded the IRS audit related to our 2002, 2003 and 2004 tax years and a tax audit in Germany related to our 1999 through 2003 tax years. We are currently under audit by the IRS for years 2005, 2006 and 2007. We are also in appeal proceedings with the applicable fiscal authority in the United States and Canada. Although it is not possible to predict the timing or the conclusion of these pending audits and appeal proceedings with accuracy, we do not anticipate that the current IRS audit will be complete by the end of 2009. Given the various stages of completion of audits, we can not currently anticipate significant changes in the amount of unrecognized income tax benefits over the next year.
As of December 31, 2008, the following tax years remained subject to examination by the major tax jurisdiction indicated:
We are also subject to income taxes in many hundreds of state and local taxing jurisdictions in the U.S. and around the world, many of which are still open to tax examinations. Management does not believe these represent a significant financial exposure for the Company.
Note 8: Segment Information
 
We operate seven reportable segments: Electronic Technologies, Display Technologies, Paint and Coatings Materials, Packaging and Building Materials, Primary Materials, Performance Materials Group, and Salt. Electronic Technologies and Display Technologies are managed under one executive as the Electronic Materials Group. Similarly, Paint and Coatings Materials, Packaging and Building Materials and Primary Materials are managed under one executive as the Specialty Materials Group. The reportable operating segments and the types of products from which their revenues are derived are discussed below.
 
The table below presents net sales by business segment. Segment eliminations are presented for intercompany sales between the reportable segments within the Specialty Materials Group.
The tables below present summarized financial information about our reportable segments:
 
Notes:
 
The table below presents sales by geographic area. Sales are attributed to the geographic location based on customer location and not on the geographic location from which goods were shipped. Long-lived assets are attributed to geographic areas based on asset location. We define long-lived assets as Land, Buildings and Equipment.
Notes:
 
 
Note 9: Retirement Benefits
We sponsor and contribute to qualified and non-qualified pension and postretirement benefit plans that provide defined benefits to U.S. and non-U.S. employees. Pension benefits earned are generally based on years of service and compensation during active employment.
Our non-qualified pension plans consist of noncontributory pension plans that provide supplemental defined benefits primarily to U.S. employees whose benefits under the qualified pension plan are limited by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code.
In addition to pension benefits, we provide postretirement benefits including health care and life insurance benefits under numerous plans for substantially all of our domestic retired employees, for which we are self-insured. Most retirees are required to contribute toward the cost of such coverage. We also provide health care and life insurance benefits to some non-U.S. retirees primarily in France and Canada.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158. This statement amends SFAS Nos. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize the overfunded or underfunded projected benefit obligation (PBO) of a defined benefit plan as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position. The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits attributable to employee service rendered to date, including the effects of estimated future salary increases. Prior to the issuance of SFAS No. 158, the consolidated balance sheet as of a fiscal year-end was required to, at a minimum, reflect an amount equal to the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), which differs from the projected benefit obligation in that it includes no assumption on future compensation levels. SFAS No. 158 also requires employers to recognize annual changes in gains or losses, prior service costs, or other credits that have not been recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost, net of tax, through comprehensive income. As a result of the adoption of the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158, we recorded a $245 million increase to Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of December 31, 2006 in Stockholders' Equity. All of our pension and postretirement plans have a measurement date of December 31.
Qualified Pension Plans
A summary of the net periodic expense for these plans is as follows:
Included in 2007 net periodic pension expense is a pre-tax non-cash charge of $65 million relating to a decision rendered by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals on August 14, 2007, affirming an Indiana Federal District Court's decision that participants in the Rohm and Haas Pension Plan who elected a lump sum benefit during a class period have the right to a cost-of-living adjustment ("COLA") as part of their retirement benefit. See Note 26 for further discussion.
The following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension expense:
 
The discount rates were determined by projecting the plans' expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation, discounting those expected payments using a zero-coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high-quality bonds as of the measurement date, and solving for the single equivalent discount rate that resulted in the same projected benefit obligation. A 1% increase in the discount rate would have decreased the net periodic benefit expense for 2008 by $18 million. A 1% decrease in the discount rate would have increased the 2008 net periodic benefit expense by $34 million.
To the extent the expected return on plan assets varies from the actual return, an actuarial gain or loss results. Each 1% increase or decrease in the expected rate of return assumption would have decreased or increased the global net periodic pension benefit expense for 2008 by $25 million.
The following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in the calculation of the PBO:
The following table reflects the change in our projected benefit obligation and the change in the fair value of plan assets based on the measurement date, as well as the amounts recognized in our balance sheets:
The changes in plan assets and benefit obligation that have been recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss during 2008 consist of the following:
 
The net unrecognized actuarial loss represents the actual changes in the estimated obligation and plan assets that have not been recognized in our income statement. As of December 31, 2008, this amounted to $866 million for our global qualified pension plans, up from a net unrecognized loss of $270 million as of December 31, 2007. The increase in actuarial losses is primarily due to losses on plan assets in excess of expected gains, which contributed $743 million to the loss, partially offset by actuarial gains due to an increase in the discount rate for both U.S. and Non-U.S. plans.
Actuarial gains achieved on our U.S. retirement plan during 2007 were primarily attributable to higher discount rates on our global plans as of December 31, 2007, as well as the favorable impact of plan amendments approved by management during the year. Principal changes to the U.S. retirement plan include the adoption of a new discount rate for lump sum benefits paid on or after December 31, 2008 in accordance with the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and a revision of the plan's benefit formula which will eliminate the cost of living adjustment on benefits earned on or after December 31, 2008. Actuarial gains were partially offset by lower than expected actual returns on plan assets for our global plans, which contributed $47 million to our unrecognized net loss during 2007.
Actuarial gains and losses are not recognized immediately, but instead are accumulated as a part of the unrecognized net loss balance and amortized into net periodic pension expense over the average remaining service period of participating employees as certain thresholds are met.
Because the total unrecognized net loss exceeds the greater of 10% of the projected benefit obligation or 10% of the plan assets, the excess will be amortized over the average expected future working lifetime of active plan participants. As of December 31, 2008, the average expected future working lifetime of active plan participants varies by plan and is within a range of 1 to 26 years.
Items included in accumulated other comprehensive loss represent amounts that have not been recognized in net periodic pension expense. The components recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss, prior to adjustment for taxes, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 include:
Yearend 2008 amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic pension expense during fiscal year 2009 are as follows:
The net assets of our defined benefit pension plans, which consist primarily of equity and debt securities, were measured at market value. The plans are prohibited from holding shares of Rohm and Haas stock, except where it is a component of an index fund. The target and actual plan asset allocation at December 31, 2008 and 2007, by asset category for U.S. and the significant non-U.S. plans, are as follows:
 
The fiduciaries of our plans determine how investments should be allocated among asset categories after taking into account plan demographics, asset returns and acceptable levels of risk. Asset allocation targets are established based on the longterm return and volatility characteristics of the asset categories. The targeted asset category allocations recognize the benefit of diversification and the profiles of the plans' liabilities. The plans' assets are currently invested in a variety of funds representing most standard equity and debt security classes, as well as direct investments in equity securities. In 2008 we revised our U.S. plan investment policy to increase our investments in hedge funds and alternative asset classes and reduce our investment in equity securities, with the goal of increasing our returns while lowering annual asset volatility. We perform periodic reviews of our U.S. plan investment policy to ensure that our plan investments are balanced with the goal of containing potential declines in asset values within a specified percentage and preventing negative returns over a five year period. The plans' investment policy mandates diversification, consistent with that goal. We are permitted to make changes to our U.S. plan investment policy at any time.
Projected benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, are as follows:
In 2008, we contributed approximately $32 million to our qualified pension plans, up from the $30 million contributed in the prior year period. Total funding for our non-U.S. qualified pension plans of $32 million includes $12 million paid to fund shortfalls in our UK pension trust.
We are not required to and therefore do not expect to make contributions to our U.S. pension trust during 2009. We do expect to contribute approximately $29 million to fund our non-U.S. qualified pension plans, however funding requirements significantly depend on changes in assumptions used to calculate plan funding levels, the actual return on plan assets, changes in the employee groups covered by the plans, and any legislative or regulatory changes affecting plan funding requirements. The company may increase, accelerate, decrease or delay contributions to the plans to the extent permitted by law.
The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the actuarial present value of benefits attributed to employee service rendered to a particular date, based on current salaries. The ABO for our U.S. plans was $1,409 million and $1,357 million, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The ABO for our non-U.S. plans was $578 million and $745 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The following table provides information on pension plans where the ABO exceeds the value of plan assets:
Non-Qualified Pension Plans
The following disclosures include the components of net periodic pension cost and other amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss for both the U.S. and Canadian nonqualified pension plans:
 
The following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension expense:
The following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in the calculation of the PBO:
The following table reflects the change in our projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets based on the measurement date:
The changes in plan assets and benefit obligation that have been recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss during 2008 for our non-qualified plans consist of the following:
Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, before tax impact, as of December 31, 2008, include net unrecognized actuarial losses of $56 million and unrecognized prior service credit of $1 million. The
 
estimated December 31, 2008, net actuarial loss that will be amortized from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss into net periodic pension expense over the next fiscal year is $4 million.
Non-qualified plan contributions, which reflect expected future service, are as follows:
The ABO of the non-qualified plans is $144 million and $139 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Defined Contribution Plans
Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan
We have an employee stock ownership and savings plan ("the Savings Plan") where eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of qualified before-tax pay and up to 19% of after-tax pay, subject to the annual limit set by the IRS. During 2006 and 2007, we matched the first 6% of the salary contributed at 60 cents on the dollar. As of January 1, 2008, we match 100% of the first 3% of salary contributed, and 50% of the next 3% of salary contributed. We provide for the Savings Plan matching contributions with common shares through a leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). We recorded compensation expense for the Savings Plan of $6 million annually in 2008, 2007 and 2006 for ESOP shares allocated to plan members. See Note 22 for more information on the Savings Plan.
Non-qualified Savings Plan
We have a non-qualified savings plan for eligible employees in the U.S. The purpose of the plan is to provide additional retirement savings benefits for employees above a certain level beyond the otherwise determined savings benefits provided by the Savings Plan. Each participant's non-qualified savings plan contributions are notionally invested, based upon the participant's instructions, in the same investment fund offerings as provided in the Savings Plan. We contribute a notional amount equal to 100% of the first 3% contributed, and 50% of the next 3% contributed by the participant. Our matching contributions are allocated to deferred stock units. At the time of distribution, each deferred stock unit is distributed as one share of Rohm and Haas Company common stock. Participants can also make an irrevocable election to convert restricted stock, which has not been granted, into Rohm and Haas Stock Units in the year prior to the year in which they are granted. We do not match these elections. Participants in the Long-term Performance Share Plan ("LTPSP") (See Note 23) may defer their LTPSP payments into the Plan. We do not match these elections. We recorded expense of $2 million, $3 million, and $5 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for non-qualified savings plan.
Non-qualified Trust
We have a non-qualified trust, referred to as a "rabbi" trust, to fund benefit payments for both our non-qualified U.S. pension and savings plans. Rabbi trust assets are subject to creditor claims under certain conditions and are not the property of employees. Therefore, they are accounted for as corporate assets and are classified as other non-current assets. Assets held in trust totaled $257 million and $76 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in 2008 is due to a contribution of $200 million made during December 2008 in anticipation of our merger with The Dow Chemical Company, as required by the terms of our Rabbi Trust, prior to a change in control. Should the merger not be consummated the provisions of the Rabbi Trust allow for the return of the contribution at Rohm and Haas' request.
Other Postretirement Benefits
The following disclosures include amounts for both the U.S. and significant non-U.S. postretirement plans:
 
The following table sets forth the discount rate used in the calculation of net periodic postretirement cost for the U.S. plans:
Different discount rates are used for non-U.S. plans, which account for approximately 17% of the total benefit obligation as of December 31, 2008.
The following table reflects the change in the postretirement benefit obligation and the plans' funded status based on the measurement date:
 
Plan assets for the U.S. postretirement benefit plan primarily consist of debt and equity securities.
The changes in plan assets and benefit obligation that have been recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss during 2008 and 2007 for our postretirement benefit plans consist of the following:
The components recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, prior to adjustment for taxes, as of December 31, 2008 include:
The December 31, 2008 estimated net actuarial loss and prior service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic postretirement cost over the next fiscal year are each $1 million.
The following table sets forth the weighted average discount rate used in the calculation of the U.S. postretirement benefit obligation:
The U.S. plan generally limits our per-capita cost of benefits to double the 1992 cost. Different cost limits apply to some groups of participants, and there are some retirees to whom the limits do not apply. The limits greatly reduce the impact of health care cost trend rates on the benefit obligation and expense.
 
We receive a federal subsidy under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 as our postretirement benefit plan provides a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to the prescription drug benefit under Medicare Part D.
Projected benefit payments for our U.S. and non-U.S. plans, which reflect expected future service are as follows:
Note 10: Employee Benefits
See Note 9 for more information on pension and postretirement health care benefits.
Note 11: Restricted Cash
Restricted cash in 2007 of $3 million represents investments in cash equivalents through a trust designed to meet financial assurance requirements of U.S., state and local environmental agencies with respect to plant operations. In 2008, these financial assurances were provided through letters of credit. These requirements are based on an annual assessment of our net worth.
Note 12: Receivable, net
Value added tax recorded in receivables, net, is reclaimable from the governmental jurisdictions. Employee receivables are primarily comprised of relocation and education reimbursements for our employees.
Note 13: Inventories
Inventories consist of the following:
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory method for domestic inventories, which approximates 35% and 39% of the total inventory balance at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The remainder is determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The excess of replacement cost over the value of inventories based upon the LIFO method was $147 million and $170 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Liquidation of LIFO layers resulted in an immaterial net decrease to cost of goods sold in 2008 and 2006. The 2007 liquidation of LIFO layers resulted in a decrease to cost of goods sold of $9 million.
Note 14: Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Note 15: Land Buildings and Equipment, net
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, interest costs of $15 million, $12 million and $11 million were capitalized. Amortization of such capitalized costs included in depreciation expense was $14 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Depreciation expense was $467 million, $412 million and $403 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Note 16: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net
Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, by business segment, are as follows:
Notes:
Intangible Assets
SFAS No. 142 established two broad categories of intangible assets: finite-lived intangible assets, which are subject to amortization; and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization.
 
The following table provides information regarding our intangible assets:
Gross Asset Value
Accumulated Amortization
Notes:
Certain of our intangible assets are denominated in foreign currencies and are translated using the appropriate U.S. dollar exchange rate. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the currency translation adjustment reduced the recorded gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by $58 million and $10 million, respectively.
Amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was $63 million, $57 million and $56 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $63 million for the full year 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, and $57 million and $56 million for 2012 and 2013, respectively.
 
Annual SFAS No. 142 Impairment Review
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, we are required to perform, at a reporting unit level, an annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. For purposes of this review, we primarily utilize discounted cash flow analyses for estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We completed our annual recoverability review as of May 31, 2008 and 2007, and determined that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were fully recoverable as of these dates. In light of the current global recession, we will continue to monitor cash flows and other factors that may trigger a future impairment. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, it may result in a decline in our estimated future cash flows. A material decline in the estimated future cash flows of our reporting units or significant increases in the WACC rate could result in the fair value falling below the book value of its net assets. This could result in a material impairment charge.
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,"
SFAS No. 144 Impairment Review
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
Note 17: Other Assets
Note 18: Borrowings
Short-Term Obligations
Generally, our short-term borrowings consist of bank loans and commercial paper with an original maturity of twelve months or less. As of December 31, 2008, we had uncommitted credit arrangements with financial institutions to provide local credit facilities to our foreign subsidiaries for working capital needs. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $114 million and $82 million, respectively, were outstanding under such arrangements.
At December 31, 2008, we had no commercial paper outstanding.
The weighted-average interest rate of short-term borrowings was 6.1% and 6.3% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
In November 2003 and September 2004, we entered into three-year receivables securitization agreements under which two of our operating subsidiaries in Japan sell a defined pool of trade accounts receivable without recourse to an unrelated third party financier who purchases and receives ownership interest and the risk of credit loss in those receivables. These agreements renew on an evergreen basis for the additional term of one year after the initial term expires. The transfers qualify for sales treatment under SFAS No. 140, "The utilized balance under the receivables
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities."
 
securitization agreements was $20 million and $17 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is not included in debt nor as receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Amounts sold related to these agreements totaled $72 million and $63 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The maximum availability under these agreements is $39 million. We continue to retain collection and administrative responsibilities in the receivables. When the third party financier sells the receivables, the associated discount is accounted for as a loss on the sale of receivables and has been included in other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This discount was immaterial in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Due to the short-term nature of the non-interest bearing receivables sold, changes to the key assumptions would not materially impact the recorded loss on the sale of receivables.
Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements
The following table illustrates the carrying value of long-term debt included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
In November 2007, we issued 400 million of Japanese Yen-denominated variable rate notes (approximately $15 million at December 31, 2008) due in November 2012. The interest rate is 1.57% and payments are due semi-annually.
In November 2007, we issued 7 billion of Japanese Yen-denominated variable rate notes (approximately $77 million at December 31, 2008) due in December 2012. The interest rate is 1.54% and payments are due semi-annually.
In September 2007, we issued $250 million of 5.60% notes at 99.985% of par due in March 2013 and $850 million of 6.00% notes at 99.487% of par due in September 2017 (the Notes). The Notes represent unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Rohm and Haas Company which are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows us to retire the Notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by the early redemption. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in March and September, commencing in March 2008. In the event of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the terms of the Notes, we may be required to offer to purchase the Notes from holders at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest. The merger with The Dow Chemical Company would constitute a change in control for this purpose and the bondholder rights to put the debt back to us would be triggered if the transaction caused the above-mentioned downgrades within a 60-day period as defined. The terms of the Notes limit us from entering into certain mortgage and certain sale and leaseback transactions. As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized Debt discount of $4 million and related unamortized issuance costs of $4 million, included in the Other category in the table above, will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the Notes.
 
In September 2007, we entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $250 million to swap the fixed rate components of the $250 million notes due in March 2013 to a floating rate based on six-month LIBOR. In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $850 million to swap the fixed rate component of the $850 million 10-year fixed rate notes due in June 2017, to a floating rate based on three and six month LIBOR. In November 2008, we terminated the total $1.1 billion of these interest rate swap contracts. The $69 million gain received from the termination of the interest rate swap contracts is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining 5 and 9 year respective lives of the notes. As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized balance included in long-term debt is a $68 million gain which is included in the fair market value adjustments category in the table above.
In March of 2007, we issued 175 million of 4.50% Private Placement Senior Notes due March 9, 2014, with interest payable semi-annually in March and September at a rate of 4.50% annually. This Private Placement indenture contains a financial covenant which requires us to generate trailing four-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, excluding extraordinary items of at least 3.0 times interest on debt (both expensed and capitalized). By comparison, our 2008 coverage was just above 8 times, substantially above the covenant requirement and we forecast being able to maintain performance well above the covenant threshold for the foreseeable future.
The 3.50% Japanese Yen notes issued in February 2002 are callable annually after March 2012.
The 9.75% debentures due in 2020, previously issued by Morton International, Inc., are credit-sensitive unsecured obligations (Debentures). The coupon interest rate on the Debentures is subject to adjustment upon changes in the debt rating of the Debentures as determined by Standard and Poor's Corporation or Moody's Investors Service. Upon acquiring Morton International, Inc., we recorded a fair market value adjustment on the Debentures, which is being amortized ratably over the remaining life of the Debentures. The remaining amount of this adjustment amounted to $15 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. These debentures are guaranteed by Rohm and Haas Company.
Our 9.80% debentures due in 2020 also have change in control provisions that allow the bondholders to redeem the debt at 100% of fair value.
We have a revolving credit facility of $750 million, which expires December 2012, that is maintained for general corporate purposes including support for any future issuance of commercial paper. The commitment was unused at December 31, 2008 and 2007. No compensating balance is required for this revolving credit agreement. Our revolving credit and other loan agreements require that earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, excluding certain items, exceed 3.5 times consolidated interest expense on a rolling four-quarter basis. By comparison, our 2008 coverage was just above 7 times, substantially above the covenant requirement and we forecast being able to maintain performance well above the covenant threshold for the foreseeable future. There are no restrictions on the payment of dividends.
At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately $101 million issued primarily in support of self-insurance, environmental and tax-related activities. There were no drawdowns under these letters of credit.
The aggregate amount of long-term debt maturing in each of the next five years is $38 million in 2009, zero in 2010, zero in 2011, $431 million in 2012 and $250 million in 2013. As some of the debt is denominated in foreign currencies, the actual value of these debt maturities will fluctuate with changes in foreign exchange rates.
During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we made interest payments, net of capitalized interest, of $165 million, $117 million, and $109 million, respectively.
 
Note 19: Accrued Liabilities
Note 20: Other Liabilities
Our asset retirement obligations are primarily associated with the following: 1) the capping of certain brine and gas wells used by our Salt segment for the production of various products; and 2) the contractual requirement to remove or dismantle certain leasehold improvements at the end of the lease term.
 
The liability for certain asset retirement obligations cannot currently be measured as the retirement dates are not yet determinable. We will recognize the liability when sufficient information exists to estimate a range of potential dates.
Note 21: Stockholders' Equity
We have an employee stock ownership and savings plan ("the Savings Plan") where eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of qualified before-tax pay and up to 19% of after-tax pay, subject to the annual limit set by the IRS. During 2006 and 2007, we matched the first 6% of the salary contributed at 60 cents on the dollar. As of January 1, 2008, we match 100% of the first 3% of salary contributed, and 50% of the next 3% of salary contributed. We provide for the Savings Plan matching contributions with common shares through a leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). We have elected to continue to account for the Savings Plan based on AICPA Statement of Position 76-3, "" as permitted by AICPA Statement of Position 93-6, ""
Accounting Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans
Employers' Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans.
The ESOP purchased 18.9 million shares (split adjusted) of our common stock in 1990. The 18.9 million shares will decline over the 30-year life of the ESOP as shares are allocated to employee savings plan member accounts. We financed this purchase by borrowing $150 million at a 9.8% rate for 30 years, plus funds from other sources, which were loaned to the ESOP trust with payments guaranteed by us. The remaining balance of the guarantee as of December 31, 2008 is $134 million. The ESOP trust funds annual loan payments of $20 million, which include principal and interest, from interest earnings on cash balances and common dividends on shares not yet allocated to participants, common dividends on certain allocated shares and company cash contributions. Interest expense recorded by the ESOP trust related to annual loan payments totaled $14 million, $14 million and $15 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Dividends paid on ESOP shares used as a source of funds for the ESOP financing obligation were $19 million, $19 million and $18 million, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These dividends were recorded net of the related U.S. tax benefits. We contributed cash of $1 million, $1 million and $2 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The number of ESOP shares not allocated to plan members at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 7.3 million, 8.0 million and 8.6 million, respectively. All shares not allocated to plan members are considered outstanding for purposes of computing basic and diluted EPS under AICPA Statement of Position 76-3.
We recorded compensation expense for the Savings Plan of $6 million annually in 2008, 2007 and 2006 for ESOP shares allocated to plan members. We expect to record annual compensation expense of approximately this amount over the next 12 years as the remaining $452 million of ESOP shares are allocated to plan members. The allocation of shares from the ESOP is expected to fund a substantial portion of our future obligation to match employees' savings plan contributions as the market price of Rohm and Haas stock appreciates. However, if the stock price does not appreciate, we would need to make additional contributions.
Stockholders' Rights Plan
In 2000, we adopted a stockholders' rights plan under which the Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right (Right) for each outstanding share of our common stock held of record as of the close of business on November 3, 2000. The Rights initially are deemed to be attached to the common shares and detach and become exercisable only if (with certain exceptions and limitations) a person or group has obtained or attempts to obtain beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock or is otherwise determined to be an "acquiring person" by the Board of Directors. Each Right, if and when it becomes exercisable, initially will entitle holders of the Rights to purchase one one-thousandth (subject to adjustment) of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $150 per one one-thousandth of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. Each holder of a Right (other than the acquiring person) is entitled to receive a number of shares of our common stock with a market value equal to two times the exercise price, or $300. The Rights expire, unless earlier exercised or redeemed, on December 31, 2010.
Share Repurchase Program
In December 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our common stock through 2008, with the timing of the purchases depending on market conditions and other priorities for cash. During 2007, we used $462 million of available cash to repurchase 8.5 million of our outstanding shares, which
 
essentially completed the $1 billion authorization. Over the life of this authorization, we have repurchased 20.2 million shares.
On July 16, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of our common stock, the first $1 billion of which was financed with debt. For the debt financed portion of this authorization, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (Goldman Sachs) on September 10, 2007. Under the ASR, we paid $1 billion to Goldman Sachs and initially received approximately 16.2 million of shares of our common stock on September 11, 2007. In June 2008, upon closing of the ASR, we received an additional 3.1 million shares. The average share price for the 19.3 million total shares repurchased was $51.56, approximately 3% below the average market price of our stock during the repurchase period. We have discontinued repurchasing our shares.
Note 22: Share-Based Compensation Plans
We have various stock-based compensation plans for directors, executives and employees.
1999 Stock Plan
Under this plan, as amended in 2001 and 2004, we may grant as options or restricted stock up to 29 million shares of common stock with no more than 3 million of these shares granted to any employee as options over a five-year period. No more than 50% of the shares in this plan can be issued as restricted stock, which generally vest either over five years, or one third after three years and one third each in years four and five. Awards under this plan may be granted to our employees and directors. Options granted under this plan in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were granted at the fair market value on the date of grant and generally vest over three years expiring within 10 years of the grant date. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 13 million shares were issuable under this plan.
9
Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plans of 1997 and 2005
Under the 1997 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan, directors receive half of their annual retainer in deferred stock. Each share of deferred stock represents the right to receive one share of our common stock upon leaving the board. Directors may also elect to defer all or part of their cash compensation into deferred stock. Annual compensation expense is recorded equal to the number of deferred stock shares awarded multiplied by the market value of our common stock on the date of award. Additionally, directors receive dividend equivalents on each share of deferred stock, payable in deferred stock, equal to the dividend paid on a share of common stock. As a result of provisions of the "enacted in November 2004, we replaced the Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan of 1997 with a new plan which was approved by the stockholders at the May 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The new plan has the provisions required by this legislation but otherwise has the same terms as the old plan.
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,"
Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Savings Plan
We have a non-qualified savings plan for eligible employees in the U.S. The purpose of the plan is to provide additional retirement savings benefits for employees above a certain level beyond the otherwise determined savings benefits provided by the Savings Plan. See Note 22 for more information on the Savings plan. Each participant's non-qualified savings plan contributions are notionally invested, based upon the participant's instructions, in the same investment fund offerings as provided in the Savings Plan. We contributed a notional amount equal to 100% of the first 3% contributed, and 50% of the next 3% contributed by the participant. Our matching contributions are allocated to deferred stock units. At the time of distribution, each deferred stock unit is distributed as one share of Rohm and Haas Company common stock. Participants can also make an irrevocable election to convert restricted stock, which has not been granted, into Rohm and Haas Stock Units in the year prior to the year in which they are granted. We do not match these elections. Participants in the Long-term Performance Share Plan ("LTPSP") (See below) may defer their LTPSP payments into the Plan. We do not match these elections. We recorded expense of $2 million, $3 million, and $5 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for non-qualified savings plan.
Share-Based Compensation Overview
The majority of our share-based compensation is granted in the form of restricted stock and restricted stock units ("restricted stock"), and non-qualified stock options. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we
 
recognized approximately $49 million, $49 million and $48 million, respectively, of pre-tax expense related to share-based compensation, and a related income tax benefit of $17 million, $17 million and $16 million, respectively. Approximately $8 million, $8 million and $11 million of the total expense was related to liability awards for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately $6 million, $7 million, and $5 million in share-based liabilities were actually paid as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Of the total expense recorded in 2008, approximately $33 million was a component of selling and administrative expense, $10 million was a component of cost of sales, and $6 million was a component of research and development. The amount of compensation cost capitalized was not material.
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R ("SFAS No. 123R"), SFAS No. 123R, which is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123 ("SFAS No. 123"), requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based upon their fair values. Because we adopted the fair value method of recording share-based compensation as defined in SFAS No. 123 on January 1, 2003, all options granted prior to January 1, 2003 were fully vested as of January 1, 2006. Therefore, the adoption of SFAS No. 123R did not materially impact our consolidated results of operations. However, we are required to comply with the following provisions of SFAS No. 123R, which also did not materially impact our consolidated results:
"Share-Based Payment."
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,"
Stock Options
Our stock options generally vest over three years, with one-third vesting each year. We recognize expense for our stock options using the straight-line method over the requisite service period. Our options generally expire ten years after the grant date. The total value of compensation expense for stock options is equal to the fair value of the award on the grant date. We calculate the fair value of stock options utilizing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized approximately $5 million, $6 million and $8 million, respectively, of pre-tax compensation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock options, and a related income tax benefit of $2 million in each of the three years.
A summary of our stock options as of December 31, 2008, is presented below:
 
As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the weighted average per share fair value of options granted was $9.47, $10.13 and $12.73, respectively.
As of December 31, 2008, there was $5 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.1 years.
The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was used to estimate the fair value for each grant made under the Rohm and Haas plan during the year. The following are the weighted-average assumptions used for all shares granted in the years indicated:
Restricted Stock
Our restricted stock primarily vests either over five years or one third after three years and one third each in years four and five. We recognize expense for our restricted stock using the straight-line method over the requisite service period. For retirement eligible participants, expense is recognized using the straight-line method over the period from the date of the grant until the participant becomes retirement eligible. The total value of compensation expense for restricted stock is equal to the average of the high and low price of Rohm and Haas Company shares on the date of grant. Total pre-tax compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for restricted stock was $24 million, $30 million and $26 million in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
A summary of our restricted stock as of December 31, 2008, is presented below:
 
As of December 31, 2008, there was $46 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.9 years.
Long-term Performance Share Plan ("LTPSP")
We grant executives share-based liability awards (amounts settled in cash) and equity awards whose vesting is contingent upon meeting various performance goals, including return on net assets and our company stock performance against peers. We calculate the fair value of the market-based component of the equity award using a lattice model. Shares related to our long-term incentive plan vest over a period of 3 years. Total pre-tax compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for our LTPSP was $20 million, $13 million and $14 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
As of December 31, 2008, there was $18 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation awards granted under our performance plan; that cost is expected to be recognized over a period of approximately 1.7 years.
Note 23: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:
Note 24: Leases
We lease certain properties and equipment used in our operations, primarily under operating leases. Most lease agreements require minimum lease payments plus a contingent rental based upon equipment usage and escalation factors. Total net rental expense incurred under operating leases amounted to $86 million, $90 million and $81 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Total future minimum lease payments under the terms of non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:
Note 25: Contingent Liabilities, Guarantees and Commitments
Litigation Against The Dow Chemical Company
We entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiary Ramses Acquisition Corp. (Dow) on July 10, 2008. On January 26, 2009, we filed suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Dow alleging that, even though all conditions to Dow's obligation to close the merger have been satisfied, Dow, in breach of its obligations under the Merger Agreement, has refused to consummate the transaction. The suit seeks an order of specific performance requiring Dow to close the merger immediately. A trial date has been set for March 9, 2009.
 
Environmental Matters
We are a party in various government enforcement and private actions associated with former waste disposal sites, many of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA") National Priority List, where remediation costs have been or may be incurred under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and similar state statutes. In some of these matters we may also be held responsible for alleged property damage. We have provided for future costs, on an undiscounted basis, at certain of these sites. We are also involved in corrective actions at some of our manufacturing facilities.
We consider a broad range of information when we determine the amount necessary for remediation accruals, including available facts about the waste site, existing and proposed remediation technology and the range of costs of applying those technologies, prior experience, government proposals for this or similar sites, the liability of other parties, the ability of other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") to pay costs apportioned to them and current laws and regulations. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental remediation obligations generally are recognized at the point during the remedial feasibility study when costs become probable and estimable. We do not accrue for legal costs expected to be incurred with a loss contingency. We assess the accruals quarterly and update these as additional technical and legal information becomes available. However, at certain sites, we are unable, due to a variety of factors, to assess and quantify the ultimate extent of our responsibility for study and remediation costs.
Reserves for environmental remediation that we believe to be probable and estimable are recorded appropriately as current and long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These reserves include liabilities expected to be paid out within 10 years. The amounts charged to pre-tax earnings for environmental remediation and related charges are included in cost of goods sold and are presented below:
In addition to accrued environmental liabilities, there are costs which have not met the definition of probable, and accordingly, are not recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimates for liabilities to be incurred between 11 to 30 years in the future are considered only reasonably possible because the chance of a future event occurring is more than remote but less than probable. These loss contingencies are monitored regularly for a change in fact or circumstance that would require an accrual adjustment. We have identified reasonably possible loss contingencies related to environmental matters of approximately $138 million and $124 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.
Further, we have identified other sites where future environmental remediation may be required, but these loss contingencies cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. These matters involve significant unresolved issues, including the number of parties found liable at each site and their ability to pay, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the outcome of negotiations with regulatory authorities and alternative methods of remediation.
Except as noted below, we believe that these matters, when ultimately resolved, which may be over an extended period of time, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, but could have a material adverse effect on consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any given period.
Our significant sites are described in more detail below.
 
The Wood-Ridge, New Jersey site ("Site"), and Berry's Creek, which runs past this Site, are areas of environmental significance to the Company. The Site is the location of a former mercury processing plant acquired many years ago by a company later acquired by Morton International, Inc. ("Morton"). Morton and Velsicol Chemical Corporation ("Velsicol") have been held jointly and severally liable for the cost of remediation of the Site. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("NJDEP") issued the Record of Decision documenting the clean-up requirements for the manufacturing site in October 2006. The Company entered into an agreement to perform the work in October 2008. The trust created by Velsicol will bear a portion of the cost of remediation, consistent with the bankruptcy trust agreement that established the trust. In addition, an unsuccessful two day mediation session was conducted in July 2008 with approximately one dozen non-settling parties, including companies whose materials were processed at the manufacturing site, to resolve their share of the liability for a portion of the remediation costs. We are in continued discussions with these parties under an agreement tolling the deadlines for filing cost-recovery litigation. Our ultimate exposure at the Site will depend on clean-up costs and on the level of contribution from other parties.
In May 2008, Morton and nearly 100 other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") entered into an agreement to perform a Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study for the Berry's Creek Study Area; this study will examine risks posed by contamination in Berry's Creek and the surrounding wetlands. Through its technical consultants, the group submitted a work plan for the study in September 2008, and is in the process of addressing agency comments. The schedule calls for field sampling beginning in the spring of 2009. The proposed schedule provides that the RI/FS will take at least four years to complete. In addition, subsequent sampling events, studies, testing, or other actions typically add several years before a final remedy is selected. Today, there is much uncertainty as to what will be required to address Berry's Creek, but investigation and clean-up costs, as well as potential resource damage assessments, could be substantial and our share of these costs could possibly be material to the results of our operations, cash flows and consolidated financial position.
We closed the former Morton plant at Paterson, New Jersey in December 2001, and are currently undertaking remediation of the site under New Jersey's Industrial Site Recovery Act. We removed contaminated soil from the site and constructed an on-site remediation system for residual soil and groundwater contamination. Off-site investigation of contamination is ongoing. Although the former Paterson facility was located on the upper Passaic River, the Company received and responded to a request for information from the government associated with its Lower Passaic River Study Area. The request focused on chemicals that may have been used, processed, released or discharged from the manufacturing site and subsequently may have entered the Passaic River. We believe that any nexus between the Paterson operations on the upper Passaic River and the contamination in the Lower Passaic River is remote, but the government and other PRPs will continue to attempt to spread the costs of the study and clean up across more parties. To this end, the responsible parties that were sued by New Jersey authorities to force clean up of the Lower Passaic have filed third party complaint against an additional 300 parties, including Morton.
Rohm and Haas is a PRP at this Camden, New Jersey former drum recycling site. U.S. EPA Region 2 issued a Record of Decision in 2005. The project is divided into two phases: Phase I will involve soil remediation and groundwater monitoring. Phase II will address groundwater remediation and institutional controls. Rohm and Haas and other PRPs entered into a Consent Decree for performance of Phase I of the remedy. Additionally, the Consent Decree, which has been entered by the Court, resolves the claims of the U.S. EPA and the claims of the NJDEP for past costs and natural resources damages.
Major remediation for certain sites, such as Kramer, Whitmoyer, Woodlands, Charlie Burch and Goose Farm has been completed. We are continuing groundwater remediation and monitoring programs. Reserves for these costs have been established.
We also have accruals for enforcement and corrective action programs under environmental laws at several of our manufacturing sites. The more significant of these accruals for corrective action, in addition to those presented above, have been recorded for the following sites: Bristol, Pennsylvania; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Houston,
 
Texas; Louisville, Kentucky; Moss Point, Mississippi (where operations have been terminated); Ringwood, Illinois; Apizaco, Mexico; Jacarei, Brazil; Jarrow, U.K.; Chauny and Lauterbourg, France; and Mozzanica, Italy.
Insurance Litigation
We have actively pursued lawsuits over insurance coverage for certain environmental liabilities. It is our practice to reflect environmental insurance recoveries in the results of operations for the quarter in which the litigation is resolved through settlement or other appropriate legal processes. These resolutions typically resolve coverage for both past and future environmental spending and involve the "buy back" of the policies and have been included in cost of goods sold. Litigation is pending regarding insurance coverage for certain Ringwood plant environmental lawsuits. We settled with several of our insurance carriers and recorded pre-tax earnings of approximately $3 million, $2 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Self-Insurance
We maintain deductibles for general liability, business interruption and property damage to owned, leased and rented property. These deductibles could be material to our earnings, but they should not be material to our overall financial position. We carry substantial excess general liability, property and business interruption insurance above our deductibles. In addition, we meet all statutory requirements for automobile liability and workers' compensation.
Other Litigation
In November 2006, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky by individuals alleging that their persons or properties were invaded by particulate and air contaminants from the Louisville plant. The complaint seeks class action certification alleging that there are hundreds of potential plaintiffs residing in neighborhoods within two miles of the plant. We have reached a settlement in principle of this lawsuit.
In April 2006 and thereafter, lawsuits were filed against Rohm and Haas claiming that the Company's Ringwood, Illinois plant contaminated groundwater and air that allegedly reached properties a mile south of the plant site. Also sued was the owner of a plant site neighboring our facility. An action brought in federal court in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania seeks certification of a class comprised of the owners and residents of about 400 homes in McCullom Lake Village, seeking medical monitoring and compensation for alleged property value diminution, among other things. In addition, twenty-two lawsuits pending in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas claim that contamination from the plants has resulted in tumors (primarily of the brain) and in one lawsuit claims relate to cirrhosis of the liver. We are vigorously defending against these claims because, although ill plaintiffs engender sympathy, we do not believe there is any evidence of a connection between the illnesses and the plant.
Rohm and Haas, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company (3M) and Hercules, Inc. have been engaged in remediation of the Woodland Sites ("Sites"), two waste disposal locations in the New Jersey Pinelands, under various NJDEP orders since the early 1990s. Remediation is complete at one site and substantially complete at the other. In February 2006, a lawsuit was filed in state court in Burlington County, New Jersey by the NJDEP and the Administrator of the New Jersey Spill Compensation Fund against these three companies and others for alleged natural resource damages relating to the Sites. In June 2008, we reached an agreement in principle with the NJDEP to settle this lawsuit by purchasing 238 acres of land for preservation purposes and paying certain legal fees and costs.
In January 2006 and thereafter, civil lawsuits were filed against Rohm and Haas and other chemical companies in U.S. federal court, alleging violation of antitrust laws in the production and sale of methyl methacrylate ("MMA") and polymethylmethacrylates ("PMMA"). The various plaintiffs sought to represent a class of direct or indirect purchasers of MMA or PMMA in the United States from January 1, 1995 through December 31, 2003. The lawsuits referred to an investigation of certain chemical producers by the European Commission in which Rohm and Haas was not involved in any way. However, in June 2006, both the direct purchasers and the indirect purchasers filed amended complaints in which Rohm and Haas was not named as a defendant, and therefore we are no longer a party to these lawsuits. In addition, another United States complaint brought in late 2006 has been dismissed. Although we remain a defendant in a similar lawsuit filed in Canada, we believe the Canadian lawsuit is without merit as to us, and, if we are not dropped from the lawsuit, we intend to defend it vigorously.
 
On December 22, 2005, a federal judge in Indiana issued a decision purporting to grant a class of participants in the Rohm and Haas pension plan the right to a cost-of-living adjustment ("COLA") as part of the retirement benefit for those who elect a lump sum benefit. The decision contravenes the plain language of the plan, which clearly and expressly excludes a discretionary COLA for participants who elect a lump sum benefit. In August 2007, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's decision that participants in the plan who elected a lump sum benefit during a class period have the right to a COLA as part of their retirement benefit. In March 2008, the Supreme Court denied our petition to hear our appeal, and the case was returned to the lower court for further proceedings. We have taken appropriate steps to modify the plan to ensure pension expense will not increase. Due to the funded status of the Rohm and Haas Pension Plan, we do not believe we will have any requirement to currently fund our plan as a result of the Seventh Circuit Court's decision. In accordance with SFAS No. 5 we recorded a charge in the third quarter of 2007 of $65 million ($42 million, after-tax) to recognize the estimated potential impact of this decision to our long term pension plan obligations. On February 11, 2009, a federal judge decided that the accrual date for the claims of the class is April 1, 2004. There are still a number of issues yet to be addressed by the court in the further proceedings, and were those issues to be decided against the Pension Plan, it is reasonably possible that we would need to record an additional charge of up to $25 million.
"Accounting for Contingencies,"
In August 2005 and thereafter, complaints were filed relating to brain cancer incidence among employees who worked at our Spring House, Pennsylvania research facility. An action filed in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas seeking medical monitoring was dismissed as barred by Pennsylvania Workers' Compensation Law, as has a separate Commonwealth Court action seeking leave to proceed as a class action before the Workers' Compensation Bureau. Seven personal injury complaints were filed in the Court of Common Pleas and, in addition, Workers' Compensation petitions were filed regarding two of the individuals. Our ongoing epidemiological studies have not found an association between anything in the Spring House workplace and brain cancer. In March 2008, we retained the University of Minnesota to complete the epidemiology studies.
In February 2003, the United States Department of Justice and antitrust enforcement agencies in the European Union, Canada and Japan initiated investigations into possible antitrust violations in the plastics additives industry. In April 2006, we were notified that the grand jury investigation in the United States had been terminated and no further actions would be taken against any parties. In August 2006, Rohm and Haas was informed by the Canadian Competition Bureau that it was terminating its investigation having found insufficient evidence to warrant a referral to the Attorney General of Canada. In January 2007, we were advised that the European Commission has closed its impact modifier investigation. The European Commission's heat stabilizer investigation remains open, although we have not been contacted since 2003. We previously reported that the Japanese Fair Trade Commission brought proceedings against named Japanese plastics additives producers but did not initiate action against Rohm and Haas and no further action is expected. Most of the criminal investigations initiated in February 2003 have now been terminated with no finding of any misconduct by the Company.
In civil litigation on plastics additives matters, we are a party to 13 private federal court civil antitrust actions, nine of which have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (District Court), including one that originally had been filed in State Court in Ohio and another involving an individual direct purchaser claim that was filed in federal court in Ohio. Eight of these actions have been brought against Rohm and Haas and other producers of plastics additives products by direct purchasers of these products and seek civil damages as a result of alleged violations of the antitrust laws. The named plaintiffs in seven of these actions have sued on behalf of all similarly situated purchasers of plastics additives products. The named plaintiff in the eighth action sued in its individual capacity, and that case has been resolved. Federal law provides that persons who have been injured by violations of Federal antitrust law may recover three times their actual damages plus attorneys' fees. In the fall of 2006, the District Court issued an order certifying six subclasses of direct purchasers premised on the types of plastics additives products that have been identified in the litigation. On April 9, 2007, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to hear an appeal from the District Court's certification order. In January 2009, the Third Circuit granted the appeal, vacated the order certifying the class, and remanded the case to the District Court for reconsideration of certification of the class under new standards for class certification established by the Third Circuit in December 2008. As a result of the resolution of the appeal, the District Court's stay of the consolidated direct purchaser cases is expected to be lifted. The ninth action involves an indirect purchaser class action antitrust complaint filed in the District Court in August 2005, consolidating all but one of several indirect purchaser cases that previously had been filed in various state courts, including Tennessee, Vermont, Nebraska, Arizona, Kansas and Ohio. The District Court has dismissed from the consolidated action the
 
claims arising from the states of Nebraska, Kansas and Ohio, and allowed the claims from Arizona, Tennessee and Vermont to continue. Because of the significant effect that the decision of the Third Circuit on the appeal of class certification in the direct purchaser cases may have on the indirect purchaser class, the parties agreed to stay this case pending the outcome of the appeal. With the resolution of the appeal, the stay is expected to be lifted. During June 2008, four additional indirect purchaser class actions were filed in various federal courts on behalf of classes of indirect purchasers in Minnesota, Florida, the District of Columbia and Massachusetts. These actions have been consolidated with the ongoing litigation in the District Court in Philadelphia. The remaining state court indirect class action is pending in California and is dormant. Our internal investigation has revealed no wrongdoing. We believe these cases are without merit as to Rohm and Haas.
As a result of the bankruptcy of asbestos producers, plaintiffs' attorneys have focused on peripheral defendants, including our company, which had asbestos on its premises. Historically, these premises cases have been dismissed or settled for minimal amounts because of the minimal likelihood of exposure at our facilities. We have reserved amounts for premises asbestos cases that we currently believe are probable and estimable.
There are also pending lawsuits filed against Morton related to employee exposure to asbestos at a manufacturing facility in Weeks Island, Louisiana with additional lawsuits expected. We expect that most of these cases will be dismissed because they are barred under workers' compensation laws. However, cases involving asbestos-caused malignancies may not be barred under Louisiana law. Subsequent to the Morton acquisition, we commissioned medical studies to estimate possible future claims and recorded accruals based on the results.
Morton has also been sued in connection with asbestos-related matters in the former Friction Division of the former Thiokol Corporation, which merged with Morton in 1982. Settlement amounts to date have been minimal and many cases have closed with no payment. We estimate that all costs associated with future Friction Division claims, including defense costs, will be well below our insurance limits.
We are also parties to litigation arising out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Recognizing the amounts reserved for such items and the uncertainty of the ultimate outcomes, it is our opinion that the resolution of all these pending lawsuits, investigations and claims will not have a material adverse effect, individually or in the aggregate, upon our results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.
Indemnifications
In connection with the divestiture of several of our operating businesses, we have agreed to retain, and/or indemnify the purchaser against, certain liabilities of the divested business, including liabilities relating to defective products sold by the business or environmental contamination arising or taxes accrued prior to the date of the sale. Our indemnification obligations with respect to these liabilities may be indefinite as to duration and may or may not be subject to a deductible, minimum claim amount or cap. As such, it is not possible for us to predict the likelihood that a claim will be made or to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential loss or range of loss. No company assets are held as collateral for these indemnifications and no specific liabilities have been established for such guarantees.
Note 26: New Accounting Pronouncements
Disclosures about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities
In December 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 140-4 and FASB Interpretation No. ("FIN") 46(R)-8, which provides additional disclosure requirements about transfers of financial assets. It also amends FIN 46(R) "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" to require additional disclosures about variable interest entities such as how they affect an entities financial position, financial performance and cash flow and related risks. This statement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods ending after December 15, 2008. The impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was limited to additional disclosure which is included in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1, "," which requires additional disclosures such as significant risks within plan assets, investment allocation decisions, fair values by major category of plan assets and valuation techniques. This statement is
Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets
 
effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2009. We believe the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements will be limited to additional disclosure.
Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
In November 2008, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 08-7, "," which addresses the accounting treatment for a defensive asset acquired in a business combination. The FASB believes that while the acquiring entity does not intend to actively use the asset it is likely contributing to an increase in the value of other assets owned by the acquiring entity. EITF 08-7 is effective for intangible assets acquired in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 in order to coincide with the effective date of Statement 141(R), see discussion below, and shall be applied prospectively. Early application is not permitted. We adopted EITF 08-7 on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any intangible assets acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.
Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets
In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, "" This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "" The intent of this FSP is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS 141 (revised 2007), "" and other U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We adopted this FSP on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any intangible assets acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.
Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
Business Combinations,
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In March 2008, the FASB issued the SFAS No. 161, "" ("SFAS No. 161"), which enhances the requirements under SFAS No. 133, "." SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivatives and hedging activities and how they affect an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. This statement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was limited to additional disclosure which is included in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Disclosures about Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements
In December 2007, the EITF met and ratified EITF No. 07-01, in order to define collaborative arrangements and to establish reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third parties. This EITF is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. This EITF is to be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. We do not believe this EITF will have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
"Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements,"
Non-controlling Interests
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "," which amends ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards that require that 1) non-controlling interests held by non-parent parties be clearly identified and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, separate from the parent's equity and 2) the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the non-controlling interest be clearly presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Income. SFAS No. 160 also requires consistent reporting of any changes to the parent's ownership while retaining a controlling financial interest, as well as specific guidelines over how to treat the deconsolidation of controlling interests and any applicable gains or losses. This statement is effective for financial statements issued during and after 2009. We have adopted SFAS No. 160 as of January 1, 2009.
Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Combinations
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, which replaces SFAS 141. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any controlling interest; recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. We will adopt SFAS 141R on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any acquisitions that close subsequent to December 31, 2008.
"Business Combinations,"
Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value in an attempt to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. This statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. Upon adoption of this statement, we did not elect the SFAS 159 option for our existing financial assets and liabilities and therefore adoption of SFAS 159 did not have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
"The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,"
Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards
In November 2006 and in March 2007, the EITF met and issued EITF No. 06-11, ("EITF No. 06-11") in order to clarify the recognition of the income tax benefit received from dividends paid to employees holding equity-classified nonvested shares, equity-classified nonvested share units, or equity-classified nonvested share options charged to retained earnings. EITF No. 06-11 states that the income tax benefit received from dividends paid on equity-classified nonvested shares, equity-classified nonvested share units, or equity-classified nonvested share options should be charged to retained earnings, and should be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital. EITF No. 06-11 is to be applied prospectively to the income tax benefits on equity classified employee share-based payment awards that are declared in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2007. We adopted this EITF effective January 1, 2008, and it did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
"Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards"
Fair Value Measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "" ("SFAS No. 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance on how to measure fair value by providing a fair value hierarchy used to classify the source of the information. For financial assets and liabilities, SFAS No. 157 is effective for us beginning January 1, 2008. In February 2008, the FASB deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually) until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We believe the impact will not require material modification related to our non-recurring fair value measurements and will be substantially limited to expanded disclosures in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for notes that currently have components measured at fair value. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The partial adoption of SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 4 for information and related disclosures. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 157 related to nonrecurring measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities. This adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Fair Value Measurements
Note 27: Subsequent Events
On February 2, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.41 per common share. This dividend will be payable on March 2, 2009 to shareholders of record at close of business on February 13, 2009.
We entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiary Ramses Acquisition Corp. (Dow) on July 10, 2008. On January 26, 2009, we filed suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery
 
against Dow alleging that, even though all conditions to Dow's obligation to close the merger have been satisfied, Dow, in breach of its obligations under the Merger Agreement, has refused to consummate the transaction. The suit seeks an order of specific performance requiring Dow to close the merger immediately. A trial date has been set for March 9, 2009.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2009
(unaudited)
For the three months ended March 31, 2008
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1:
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Rohm and Haas Company and its subsidiaries (the "Company") have been prepared on a basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and Regulation S-X of the Securities Exchange Commission. In the opinion of management, the financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are of a normal and recurring nature, which are necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2008, included as Exhibit 99.1 to the current report on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC by Dow on May 5, 2009. The interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
Rohm and Haas Company and its subsidiaries ("Rohm and Haas") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) and its subsidiary Ramses Acquisition Corp. on July 10, 2008. On April 1, 2009, Rohm and Haas became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dow.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
Noncontrolling Interests
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "," which amends ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards that require that 1) noncontrolling interests held by non-parent parties be clearly identified and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, separate from the parent's equity and 2) the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be clearly presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Income. SFAS No. 160 also requires consistent reporting of any changes to the parent's ownership while retaining a controlling financial interest, as well as specific guidelines over how to treat the deconsolidation of controlling interests and any applicable gains or losses. This statement is effective for financial statements issued in 2009. We adopted this SFAS on January 1, 2009 and the appropriate disclosures and reclassifications have been made to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
Variable Interest Entities
We are the primary beneficiary of a joint venture deemed to be a variable interest entity. Each joint venture partner holds several equivalent variable interests, with the exception of a royalty agreement held exclusively between the joint venture and our Company. In addition, the entire output of the joint venture is sold to our Company for resale to third party customers. As the primary beneficiary, we have consolidated the joint venture's assets, liabilities and results of operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Creditors and other beneficial holders of the joint venture have no recourse to the general credit of our Company.
 
As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of the joint venture's assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations, were as follows:
We also hold a variable interest in another joint venture, accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The variable interest relates to a cost-plus arrangement between the joint venture and each joint venture partner. We have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary and therefore have not consolidated the entity's assets, liabilities and results of operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The entity provides manufacturing services to us and the other joint venture partner, and has been in existence since 1999. As of March 31, 2009, our investment in the joint venture totals approximately $39 million, representing our maximum exposure to loss.
NOTE 2:
New Accounting Pronouncements
Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
In April 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Financial Statement of Position ("FSP") No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1 "" which requires an entity to provide additional interim disclosures about financial instruments. These disclosures include the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate fair value of financial instruments. This statement will be effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. We believe the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements will be limited to additional disclosure.
Interim Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1, "," which requires additional disclosures such as significant risks within plan assets, investment allocation decisions, fair values by major category of plan assets and valuation techniques. This statement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2009. We believe the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements will be limited to additional disclosure.
Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets
Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
In November 2008, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 08-7, "," which addresses the accounting treatment for a defensive asset acquired in a business combination. The FASB believes that while the acquiring entity does not intend to actively use the asset it is likely contributing to an increase in the value of other assets owned by the acquiring entity. EITF 08-7 is effective for intangible assets acquired in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 in order to coincide with the effective date of Statement 141(R), see discussion below, and shall be applied prospectively. Early application is not permitted. We adopted EITF 08-7 on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any intangible assets acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.
Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
 
Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets
In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, "" This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "" The intent of this FSP is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS 141 (revised 2007), "" and other U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We adopted this FSP on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any intangible assets acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.
Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
Business Combinations,
Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements
In December 2007, the EITF met and ratified EITF No. 07-01, in order to define collaborative arrangements and to establish reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third parties. This EITF is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. This EITF is to be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. We adopted this EITF on January 1, 2009 and it did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
"Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements,"
Business Combinations
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, which replaces SFAS 141. SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any controlling interest; recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. We adopted this SFAS on January 1, 2009 and will apply this guidance to any acquisitions that close subsequent to December 31, 2008.
"Business Combinations,"
NOTE 3: Other Expense (Income), net
We recorded other expense, net of $38 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and other income, net of $10 million for the three months ended March 31, 2008. The major categories of our other expense (income), net are summarized in the following table:
 
NOTE 4:
Fair Value Measurements
In the first quarter of 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, "" ("SFAS No. 157") for financial assets and liabilities. This standard defines fair value, provides guidance for measuring fair value and requires certain disclosures. This standard does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 discusses valuation techniques, such as the market approach (comparable market prices), the income approach (present value of future income or cash flow), and the cost approach (cost to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). The statement utilizes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The following is a brief description of those three levels:
Fair Value Measurements,
The following describes the valuation methodologies used to measure fair value and key inputs:
Our population of financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value disclosures are as follows:
 
Counter-party Risk
We manage counter-party risk by entering into derivative contracts only with major financial institutions of investment grade credit rating and by limiting the amount of exposure to each financial institution. On a selective basis we structure our derivative contracts to allow settlement at market if the counter-party is downgraded below investment grade. As of March 31, 2009, our largest exposure on derivative contracts with any one financial institution was $8 million, and our total exposure was $21 million. Based on our credit evaluation of each institution comprising these exposures, we have determined the carrying values as of March 31, 2009 are likely to be realizable within a tight range at settlement and, therefore, have not provided any reserves for non-collectibility.
NOTE 5:
Financial Instruments
We denominate our business transactions in a variety of foreign currencies, finance our operations through long- and short-term borrowings, and purchase raw materials at market prices. Accordingly, changing market prices for foreign currencies and commodities and changing interest rates materially impact our earnings, cash flows and the fair values of our assets and liabilities. Our operating and financing plans include actions to reduce, but not eliminate, the uncertainty associated with these changes including the use of derivative instruments. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements filed on this form 8-K/A with the SEC on May 5, 2009 for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Currency Hedges
We enter into foreign exchange option and forward contracts in order to reduce the risk associated with variability in our operating results from foreign-currency-denominated earnings, cash flows, assets and liabilities. We direct these hedging efforts toward three distinct currency hedging objectives:
During the first quarter of 2009, non-dollar currencies in which we transacted business were weaker, on average, compared with the prior-year period. The derivatives in these currencies generated a $12 million after-tax gain which offset losses on underlying positions during the first quarter of 2009. Through the first half of the quarter, the dollar continued to strengthen against most currencies, retreating slightly as the quarter ended. This resurgence of the dollar was recorded as an $80 million cumulative translation adjustment loss during the first quarter of 2009, net of gains from net investment hedges.
Hedges entered to preserve the U.S. dollar values of anticipated non-U.S. dollar cash flows and earnings
We generally purchase options which give us the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying currencies when the cash flows denominated in those currencies are forecast to occur. In this way, the premiums paid for the options represent the maximum cost of the hedge. If, when the forecasted transactions occur, the underlying currencies have strengthened, the options become worthless and are expensed. In this case, the dollar values of the underlying forecast non-dollar cash flows and earnings are higher than anticipated. If the underlying currencies have weakened, the options are exercised and the underlying currencies are sold at the stronger historical rate, thus preserving the dollar values of the forecast non-dollar cash flows.
These contracts are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges covering portions of our twelve month forecasted non-dollar cash flows and mature when the underlying cash flows being hedged are forecast to occur. Because the options are considered highly effective hedges, the cash value less cost will be reflected in earnings when the contracts mature. These contracts are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value prior to maturity recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For each of the periods ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, a $6 million after-tax gain and a $1 million after-tax loss, respectively, was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For the periods ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, an after-tax gain of $4 million and an immaterial amount, respectively, were recorded in earnings related to foreign currency cash flow hedges that matured during the respective periods. Changing market conditions will impact the actual amounts
 
recorded to earnings during the following twelve-month periods. Both the effective and ineffective portions of foreign currency cash flow hedges recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are classified in other income, net.
Asset and liability hedging
We contract with counter-parties to buy and sell foreign currencies to offset the impact of exchange rate changes on recognized assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, including inter-company loans. These contracts generally require exchange of one foreign currency for another at a fixed rate at a future date. These contracts have maturities generally less than twelve months. All contracts are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value recorded in other income, net. For the periods ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, after-tax gains of $8 million, and after-tax losses of $18 million, respectively, were recorded in earnings for these contracts. The impacts of these contracts were largely offset by gains and losses, respectively, resulting from the impact of changes in exchange rates on recognized assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.
Net investment hedging
We utilize foreign exchange forward and currency collar contracts together with non-dollar borrowings to hedge the dollar values of our net investments in foreign operating units in Europe, Japan and Canada. These derivative instruments and non-dollar borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. Accordingly, the effective portions of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges are recorded as part of the cumulative translation adjustment, which is part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of March 31, 2009, $193 million in after-tax losses were recorded in cumulative translation adjustment, representing the effective portions of foreign exchange losses on these hedges and non-dollar borrowings. Of this amount, $64 million in after-tax losses at March 31, 2009 was related to long-term Euro and Japanese Yen borrowings and the remainder was related to exchange forward and currency collar contracts. As of December 31, 2008, $223 million in after-tax losses were recorded in cumulative translation adjustment, representing the effective portions of foreign exchange losses on these hedges. Of this amount, $93 million in after-tax losses at December 31, 2008 was related to long-term Euro and Japanese Yen borrowings and the remainder was related to exchange forward and currency collar contracts.
The total notional value of derivatives and outstanding balance of non-dollar borrowings designated as hedges of net investments outstanding at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $637 million and $681 million, respectively.
Included in other comprehensive income (loss) as cumulative translation adjustment at March 31, 2009 was a loss of $152 million and a loss of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, all net of related gains and losses.
The amounts that were considered ineffective on these net investment hedges were recorded in interest expense. Interest expense was decreased by an immaterial amount for March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Commodity Hedges
We use commodity swap, option and collar contracts to reduce the effects of changing raw material prices. Some of these contracts were designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The notional value of these commodity derivatives outstanding at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, was $25 million and $14 million, respectively. The remaining outstanding contracts at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, with a notional value of $42 million and $66 million, respectively, were not designated to receive hedge accounting treatment.
Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at March 31, 2009 and 2008 are a $5 million after-tax loss and an immaterial amount, respectively, which represents the accumulated market value changes in those
 
outstanding commodity swap, option and collar contracts designated as hedges. To the extent these contracts are considered effective as hedges, changes in market value will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and upon maturity will be recorded in earnings consistent with our purchases of the underlying commodities during the following period up to twenty-four months. For the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, $1 million loss and an immaterial amount, respectively, were recorded as components of costs of goods sold with the related tax effect recorded in tax expense with respect to the commodity swap, option and collar contracts maturing during the same periods. The ineffective portions of these contracts were immaterial to earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and were recorded in other income, net.
Included in other income (expense) at March 31, 2009 is an immaterial amount which represents the accumulated market value changes in commodity swap, option and collar contracts not designated as hedges.
The following tables set forth the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.
 
The following tables set forth the impact of derivative instruments and related hedged items on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008.
 
NOTE 6:
Segment Information
We operate seven reportable segments: Electronic Technologies, Display Technologies, Paint and Coatings Materials, Packaging and Building Materials, Primary Materials, Performance Materials Group, and Salt. Electronic Technologies and Display Technologies are managed under one executive as the Electronic Materials Group. Similarly, Paint and Coatings Materials, Packaging and Building Materials and Primary Materials are managed under one executive as the Specialty Materials Group. The reportable operating segments and the types of products from which their revenues are derived are discussed below.
 
 
The table below presents net sales by reportable segment. Segment eliminations are presented for intercompany sales between reportable segments.
Net Sales by Business Segment and Region
Pre-Tax (Loss) Earnings by Business Segment
 
NOTE 7:
Restructuring and Asset Impairments
Severance and employee benefit costs associated with restructuring initiatives are primarily accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 112, " Asset impairment charges are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 144, The following net restructuring charges were recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as detailed below:
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits."
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets."
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairments
Restructuring by Business Segment
Restructuring reserves as of March 31, 2009 total $124 million and are included in accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The restructuring reserve balance presented is considered adequate to cover committed restructuring actions. Cash payments related to severance and employee benefits are expected to be paid over the next 15 months.
 
Restructuring Initiatives
2009 Initiatives
For the three months ended March 31, 2009, there were no new restructuring charges recorded.
2008 Initiatives
For the three months ended March 31, 2008, we recorded approximately $7 million of expense for severance and associated employee benefits, primarily due to the termination of toll manufacturing support arrangements at two facilities related to a prior divestiture that affected approximately 60 positions.
Of the initial 1,910 positions identified under the 2008 restructuring initiative, 655 positions have been eliminated as of March 31, 2009.
2007 Initiatives
For the three months ended March 31, 2007, there were no new restructuring charges recorded.
Of the initial 201 positions identified under total 2007 restructuring initiatives, we reduced the total number of positions to be affected by 19 to 182 positions in total. As of March 31, 2009, 140 positions have been eliminated.
Asset Impairments
2009 Impairments
For the three months ended March 31, 2009, we recognized $2 million of fixed asset impairment primarily related to our previously divested Digital Imaging business.
2008 Impairments
For the three months ended March 31, 2008, we recognized $5 million of fixed asset impairment charges associated with the restructuring of two manufacturing facilities due to the termination of toll manufacturing support arrangements related to a prior divestiture.
2007 Impairments
For the three months ended March 31, 2007, there were no asset impairment charges recorded.
NOTE 8:
Comprehensive Income
The components of comprehensive (loss) income are as follows:
 
NOTE 9:
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits
We sponsor and contribute to pension plans that provide defined benefits to U.S. and non-U.S. employees. Pension benefits earned are generally based on years of service and compensation during active employment. We provide health care and life insurance benefits ("Other Postretirement Benefits") under numerous plans for substantially all of our domestic retired employees, for which we are self-insured. Most retirees are required to contribute toward the cost of such coverage. We also provide health care and life insurance benefits to some non-U.S. retirees, primarily in France and Canada.
The following disclosures include amounts for both the U.S. and significant foreign pension plans (primarily Canada, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom) and other postretirement benefits.
Employer Contributions
During the three months ended March 31, 2009, we contributed approximately $17 million to our qualified and non-qualified pension and postretirement benefit plans. We anticipate making full-year contributions of approximately $79 million this year, which consist of $27 million to our foreign qualified pension plans, $12 million to our non-qualified pension plans, and $40 million to our postretirement benefit plans.
We have a non-qualified trust, referred to as a "rabbi" trust, to fund benefit payments for both our non-qualified U.S. pension plan and our non-qualified U.S. savings plan. Rabbi trust assets are subject to creditor claims under certain conditions and are not the property of employees. Therefore, they are accounted for as corporate assets and are classified as other non-current assets. During April 2009, we contributed $16 million to the rabbi trust due to our merger with Dow, as required by the terms of our Rabbi Trust, due to a change in control.
Global qualified and non-qualified pension expense, and postretirement benefit expense for 2009 is expected to be approximately $88 million.
NOTE 10:
Inventories
Inventories consist of the following:
 
NOTE 11:
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2009, by business segment, are as follows:
 
Intangibles
Intangible Assets
The following table provides information regarding changes to our finite-lived intangible assets, subject to amortization, and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization.
Gross Asset Value
 
Accumulated Amortization
 
Amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was $15 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $62 million for the full year 2009 and $61 million, $60 million, $56 million, and $54 million for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.
Annual SFAS No. 142 Impairment Review
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, we are required to perform, at a reporting unit level, an annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. For purposes of this review, we primarily utilize discounted cash flow analyses for estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We completed our annual recoverability review as of May 31, 2008 and 2007, and determined that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were fully recoverable as of these dates. In light of the current global recession we will continue to monitor cash flows and other factors that may trigger a future impairment. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, it may result in a decline in our estimated future cash flows. A material decline in the estimated future cash flows of our reporting units or significant increases in the WACC rate could result in the fair value falling below the book value of its net assets. This could result in a material impairment charge.
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,"
SFAS No. 144 Impairment Review
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
 
NOTE 12:
Accrued Liabilities
NOTE 13:
Contingent Liabilities, Guarantees and Commitments
We entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiary Ramses Acquisition Corp. (Dow) on July 10, 2008. On January 26, 2009, we filed suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Dow seeking to enforce Dow's obligation to close the merger. The suit was settled on March 9, 2009, pursuant to an order of the Chancery Court, which set a closing date not later than April 1, 2009. The acquisition was consummated on April 1, 2009. See Note 14 for further details.
Environmental Matters
We are a party in various government enforcement and private actions associated with former waste disposal sites, many of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA") National Priority List, where remediation costs have been or may be incurred under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and similar state statutes. In some of these matters we may also be held responsible for alleged property damage. We have provided for future costs, on an undiscounted basis, at certain of these sites. We are also involved in corrective actions at some of our manufacturing facilities.
We consider a broad range of information when we determine the amount necessary for remediation accruals, including available facts about the waste site, existing and proposed remediation technology and the range of costs of applying those technologies, prior experience, government proposals for this or similar sites, the liability of other parties, the ability of other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") to pay costs apportioned to them and current laws and regulations. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental remediation obligations generally are recognized at the point during the remedial feasibility study when costs become probable and estimable. We do not accrue for legal costs expected to be incurred with a loss contingency. We assess the accruals quarterly and update these as additional technical and legal information becomes available. However, at certain sites, we are unable, due to a variety of factors, to assess and quantify the ultimate extent of our responsibility for study and remediation costs.
 
   
 - 
Remediation Reserves and Reasonably Possible Amounts
Reserves for environmental remediation that we believe to be probable and estimable are recorded appropriately as current and long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These reserves include liabilities expected to be paid out within 10 years. The amounts charged to pre-tax earnings for environmental remediation and related charges are included in cost of goods sold and are presented below:
In addition to accrued environmental liabilities, there are costs which have not met the definition of probable, and accordingly, are not recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimates for liabilities to be incurred between 11 to 30 years in the future are considered only reasonably possible because the chance of a future event occurring is more than remote but less than probable. These loss contingencies are monitored regularly for a change in fact or circumstance that would require an accrual adjustment. We have identified reasonably possible loss contingencies related to environmental matters of approximately $136 million and $138 million at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.
Further, we have identified other sites where future environmental remediation may be required, but these loss contingencies cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. These matters involve significant unresolved issues, including the number of parties found liable at each site and their ability to pay, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the outcome of negotiations with regulatory authorities and alternative methods of remediation.
Except as noted below, we believe that these matters, when ultimately resolved, which may be over an extended period of time, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, but could have a material adverse effect on consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any given period.
Our significant sites are described in more detail below.
   
 - 
Wood-Ridge/Berry's Creek
The Wood-Ridge, New Jersey site ("Site"), and Berry's Creek, which runs past this Site, are areas of environmental significance to the Company. The Site is the location of a former mercury processing plant acquired many years ago by a company later acquired by Morton International, Inc. ("Morton"). Morton and Velsicol Chemical Corporation ("Velsicol") have been held jointly and severally liable for the cost of remediation of the Site. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("NJDEP") issued the Record of Decision documenting the clean-up requirements for the manufacturing site in October 2006. The Company entered into an agreement to perform the work in October 2008. The trust created by Velsicol will bear a portion of the cost of remediation, consistent with the bankruptcy trust agreement that established the trust. In addition, an unsuccessful two day mediation session was conducted in July 2008 with approximately one dozen non-settling parties, including companies whose materials were processed at the manufacturing site, to resolve their share of the liability for a portion of the remediation costs. We are in continued discussions with these parties under an agreement tolling the deadlines for filing cost-recovery litigation. Our ultimate exposure at the Site will depend on clean-up costs and on the level of contribution from other parties.
In May 2008, Morton and nearly 100 other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") entered into an agreement to perform a Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study for the Berry's Creek Study Area; this study will examine risks posed by contamination in Berry's Creek and the surrounding wetlands. Through its technical consultants, the group submitted a work plan for the study in September 2008, and is in the process of addressing agency comments. The schedule calls for field sampling beginning in the spring of 2009. The proposed schedule provides that the RI/FS will take at least four years to complete. In addition, subsequent sampling events, studies, testing, or other actions typically add several years before a final remedy is selected. Today, there is much uncertainty as to what will be required to address Berry's Creek, but investigation and clean-up costs, as well as potential resource damage
 
assessments, could be substantial and our share of these costs could possibly be material to the results of our operations, cash flows and consolidated financial position.
   
 - 
Paterson
We closed the former Morton plant at Paterson, New Jersey in December 2001, and are currently undertaking remediation of the site under New Jersey's Industrial Site Recovery Act. We removed contaminated soil from the site and constructed an on-site remediation system for residual soil and groundwater contamination. Off-site investigation of contamination is ongoing. Although the former Paterson facility was located on the upper Passaic River, the Company received and responded to a request for information from the government associated with its Lower Passaic River Study Area. The request focused on chemicals that may have been used, processed, released or discharged from the manufacturing site and subsequently may have entered the Passaic River. We believe that any nexus between the Paterson operations on the upper Passaic River and the contamination in the Lower Passaic River is remote, but the government and other PRPs will continue to attempt to spread the costs of the study and clean up across more parties. To this end, the responsible parties that were sued by New Jersey authorities to force clean up of the Lower Passaic have filed third party complaint against an additional 300 parties, including Morton.
   
 - 
Martin Aaron Superfund Site
Rohm and Haas is a PRP at this Camden, New Jersey former drum recycling site. U.S. EPA Region 2 issued a Record of Decision in 2005. The project is divided into two phases: Phase I will involve soil remediation and groundwater monitoring. Phase II will address groundwater remediation and institutional controls. Rohm and Haas and other PRPs entered into a Consent Decree for performance of Phase I of the remedy. Additionally, the Consent Decree, which has been entered by the Court, resolves the claims of the U.S. EPA and the claims of the NJDEP for past costs and natural resources damages.
   
 - 
Groundwater Treatment and Monitoring
Major remediation for certain sites, such as Kramer, Whitmoyer, Woodlands, Charlie Burch and Goose Farm has been completed. We are continuing groundwater remediation and monitoring programs. Reserves for these costs have been established.
   
 - 
Manufacturing Sites
We also have accruals for enforcement and corrective action programs under environmental laws at several of our manufacturing sites. The more significant of these accruals for corrective action, in addition to those presented above, have been recorded for the following sites: Bristol, Pennsylvania; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Houston, Texas; Louisville, Kentucky; Moss Point, Mississippi (where operations have been terminated); Ringwood, Illinois; Apizaco, Mexico; Jacarei, Brazil; Jarrow, U.K.; Chauny and Lauterbourg, France; and Mozzanica, Italy. Colombian environmental authorizes have proposed a penalty for the Company's Barranquilla, Colombia facility for an incident involving an overflow of wastewater. The Company is preparing its response.
Insurance Litigation
We have actively pursued lawsuits over insurance coverage for certain environmental liabilities. It is our practice to reflect environmental insurance recoveries in the results of operations for the quarter in which the litigation is resolved through settlement or other appropriate legal processes. These resolutions typically resolve coverage for both past and future environmental spending and involve the "buy back" of the policies and have been included in cost of goods sold. Litigation is pending regarding insurance coverage for certain Ringwood plant environmental lawsuits.
Self-Insurance
We maintain deductibles for general liability, business interruption and property damage to owned, leased and rented property. These deductibles could be material to our earnings, but they should not be material to our overall financial position. We carry substantial excess general liability, property and business interruption insurance above our deductibles. In addition, we meet all statutory requirements for automobile liability and workers' compensation.
Other Litigation
In November 2006, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky by individuals alleging that their persons or properties were invaded by particulate and air contaminants from the
 
Louisville plant. The complaint seeks class action certification alleging that there are hundreds of potential plaintiffs residing in neighborhoods within two miles of the plant. We have reached a settlement in principle of this lawsuit.
In April 2006 and thereafter, lawsuits were filed against Rohm and Haas claiming that the Company's Ringwood, Illinois plant contaminated groundwater and air that allegedly reached properties a mile south of the plant site. Also sued was the owner of a plant site neighboring our facility. An action brought in federal court in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania seeks certification of a class comprised of the owners and residents of about 400 homes in McCullom Lake Village, seeking medical monitoring and compensation for alleged property value diminution, among other things. In addition, twenty-two lawsuits pending in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas claim that contamination from the plants has resulted in tumors (primarily of the brain) and in one lawsuit claims relate to cirrhosis of the liver. We are vigorously defending against these claims because, although ill plaintiffs engender sympathy, we do not believe there is any evidence of a connection between the illnesses and the plant.
Rohm and Haas, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company (3M) and Hercules, Inc. have been engaged in remediation of the Woodland Sites ("Sites"), two waste disposal locations in the New Jersey Pinelands, under various NJDEP orders since the early 1990s. Remediation is complete at one site and substantially complete at the other. In February 2006, a lawsuit was filed in state court in Burlington County, New Jersey by the NJDEP and the Administrator of the New Jersey Spill Compensation Fund against these three companies and others for alleged natural resource damages relating to the Sites. In June 2008, we reached an agreement in principle with the NJDEP to settle this lawsuit by purchasing 238 acres of land for preservation purposes and paying certain legal fees and costs.
In January 2006 and thereafter, civil lawsuits were filed against Rohm and Haas and other chemical companies in U.S. federal court, alleging violation of antitrust laws in the production and sale of methyl methacrylate ("MMA") and polymethylmethacrylates ("PMMA"). The various plaintiffs sought to represent a class of direct or indirect purchasers of MMA or PMMA in the United States from January 1, 1995 through December 31, 2003. The lawsuits referred to an investigation of certain chemical producers by the European Commission in which Rohm and Haas was not involved in any way. However, in June 2006, both the direct purchasers and the indirect purchasers filed amended complaints in which Rohm and Haas was not named as a defendant, and therefore we are no longer a party to these lawsuits. In addition, another United States complaint brought in late 2006 has been dismissed. Although we remain a defendant in a similar lawsuit filed in Canada, we believe the Canadian lawsuit is without merit as to us, and, if we are not dropped from the lawsuit, we intend to defend it vigorously.
On December 22, 2005, a federal judge in Indiana issued a decision purporting to grant a class of participants in the Rohm and Haas pension plan the right to a cost-of-living adjustment ("COLA") as part of the retirement benefit for those who elect a lump sum benefit. The decision contravenes the plain language of the plan, which clearly and expressly excludes a discretionary COLA for participants who elect a lump sum benefit. In August 2007, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's decision that participants in the plan who elected a lump sum benefit during a class period have the right to a COLA as part of their retirement benefit. In March 2008, the Supreme Court denied our petition to hear our appeal, and the case was returned to the lower court for further proceedings. We have taken appropriate steps to modify the plan to ensure pension expense will not increase. Due to the funded status of the Rohm and Haas Pension Plan, we do not believe we will have any requirement to currently fund our plan as a result of the Seventh Circuit Court's decision. In accordance with SFAS No. 5 we recorded a charge in the third quarter of 2007 of $65 million ($42 million, after-tax) to recognize the estimated potential impact of this decision to our long term pension plan obligations. On February 11, 2009, a federal judge decided that the accrual date for the claims of the class is April 1, 2004. There are still a number of issues yet to be addressed by the court in the further proceedings, and were those issues to be decided against the Pension Plan, it is reasonably possible that we would need to record an additional charge of up to $25 million.
"Accounting for Contingencies,"
In August 2005 and thereafter, complaints were filed relating to brain cancer incidence among employees who worked at our Spring House, Pennsylvania research facility. An action filed in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas seeking medical monitoring was dismissed as barred by Pennsylvania Workers' Compensation Law, as has a separate Commonwealth Court action seeking leave to proceed as a class action before the Workers' Compensation Bureau. Seven personal injury complaints were filed in the Court of Common Pleas and, in addition, Workers' Compensation petitions were filed regarding two of the individuals. Our ongoing epidemiological studies have not
 
found an association between anything in the Spring House workplace and brain cancer. In March 2008, we retained the University of Minnesota to complete the epidemiology studies.
In February 2003, the United States Department of Justice and antitrust enforcement agencies in the European Union, Canada and Japan initiated investigations into possible antitrust violations in the plastics additives industry. In April 2006, we were notified that the grand jury investigation in the United States had been terminated and no further actions would be taken against any parties. In August 2006, Rohm and Haas was informed by the Canadian Competition Bureau that it was terminating its investigation having found insufficient evidence to warrant a referral to the Attorney General of Canada. In January 2007, we were advised that the European Commission has closed its impact modifier investigation. The European Commission's heat stabilizer investigation remains open, although we have not been contacted since 2003. We previously reported that the Japanese Fair Trade Commission brought proceedings against named Japanese plastics additives producers but did not initiate action against Rohm and Haas and no further action is expected. Most of the criminal investigations initiated in February 2003 have now been terminated with no finding of any misconduct by the Company.
In civil litigation on plastics additives matters, we are a party to 13 private federal court civil antitrust actions, nine of which have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (District Court), including one that originally had been filed in State Court in Ohio and another involving an individual direct purchaser claim that was filed in federal court in Ohio. Eight of these actions have been brought against Rohm and Haas and other producers of plastics additives products by direct purchasers of these products and seek civil damages as a result of alleged violations of the antitrust laws. The named plaintiffs in seven of these actions have sued on behalf of all similarly situated purchasers of plastics additives products. The named plaintiff in the eighth action sued in its individual capacity, and that case has been resolved. Federal law provides that persons who have been injured by violations of Federal antitrust law may recover three times their actual damages plus attorneys' fees. In the fall of 2006, the District Court issued an order certifying six subclasses of direct purchasers premised on the types of plastics additives products that have been identified in the litigation. On April 9, 2007, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to hear an appeal from the District Court's certification order. In January 2009, the Third Circuit granted the appeal, vacated the order certifying the class, and remanded the case to the District Court for reconsideration of certification of the class under new standards for class certification established by the Third Circuit in December 2008. As a result of the resolution of the appeal, the District Court's stay of the consolidated direct purchaser cases is expected to be lifted. The ninth action involves an indirect purchaser class action antitrust complaint filed in the District Court in August 2005, consolidating all but one of several indirect purchaser cases that previously had been filed in various state courts, including Tennessee, Vermont, Nebraska, Arizona, Kansas and Ohio. The District Court has dismissed from the consolidated action the claims arising from the states of Nebraska, Kansas and Ohio, and allowed the claims from Arizona, Tennessee and Vermont to continue. Because of the significant effect that the decision of the Third Circuit on the appeal of class certification in the direct purchaser cases may have on the indirect purchaser class, the parties agreed to stay this case pending the outcome of the appeal. With the resolution of the appeal, the stay is expected to be lifted. During June 2008, four additional indirect purchaser class actions were filed in various federal courts on behalf of classes of indirect purchasers in Minnesota, Florida, the District of Columbia and Massachusetts. These actions have been consolidated with the ongoing litigation in the District Court in Philadelphia. The remaining state court indirect class action is pending in California and is dormant. Our internal investigation has revealed no wrongdoing. We believe these cases are without merit as to Rohm and Haas.
As a result of the bankruptcy of asbestos producers, plaintiffs' attorneys have focused on peripheral defendants, including our company, which had asbestos on its premises. Historically, these premises cases have been dismissed or settled for minimal amounts because of the minimal likelihood of exposure at our facilities. We have reserved amounts for premises asbestos cases that we currently believe are probable and estimable.
There are also pending lawsuits filed against Morton related to employee exposure to asbestos at a manufacturing facility in Weeks Island, Louisiana with additional lawsuits expected. We expect that most of these cases will be dismissed because they are barred under workers' compensation laws. However, cases involving asbestos-caused malignancies may not be barred under Louisiana law. Subsequent to the Morton acquisition, we commissioned medical studies to estimate possible future claims and recorded accruals based on the results.
 
Morton has also been sued in connection with asbestos-related matters in the former Friction Division of the former Thiokol Corporation, which merged with Morton in 1982. Settlement amounts to date have been minimal and many cases have closed with no payment. We estimate that all costs associated with future Friction Division claims, including defense costs, will be well below our insurance limits.
We are also parties to litigation arising out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Recognizing the amounts reserved for such items and the uncertainty of the ultimate outcomes, it is our opinion that the resolution of all these pending lawsuits, investigations and claims will not have a material adverse effect, individually or in the aggregate, upon our results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.
Indemnifications
In connection with the divestiture of several of our operating businesses, we have agreed to retain, and/or indemnify the purchaser against, certain liabilities of the divested business, including liabilities relating to defective products sold by the business or environmental contamination arising or taxes accrued prior to the date of the sale. Our indemnification obligations with respect to these liabilities may be indefinite as to duration and may or may not be subject to a deductible, minimum claim amount or cap. As such, it is not possible for us to predict the likelihood that a claim will be made or to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential loss or range of loss. No company assets are held as collateral for these indemnifications and no specific liabilities have been established for such guarantees.
Note 14: Subsequent Events
Rohm and Haas entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Dow on July 10, 2008. On April 1, 2009, Rohm and Haas became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dow. In accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, we recorded expense related to accelerated equity vesting and certain costs which were contingent on the consummation of the transaction on April 1, 2009.
At that time, Dow also announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell the stock of Morton International Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary which includes our Salt segment, to K + S Aktiengesellschaft for $1.68 billion. The transaction is expected to close in mid-2009.

EXHIBIT 99.3
Introduction
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information ("pro forma financial information") is based on the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes of The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company" or "Dow") and Rohm and Haas Company ("Rohm and Haas") and has been prepared to illustrate the effects of the Company's acquisition of Rohm and Haas. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet has been prepared assuming the acquisition of Rohm and Haas had been consummated on March 31, 2009. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations have been prepared assuming the acquisition of Rohm and Haas had been consummated on January 1, 2008.
     The accompanying pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and the accompanying notes of the Company included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 20, 2009, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on May 4, 2009, as well as the historical financial statements and the accompanying notes of Rohm and Haas, which are filed in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
     The pro forma financial information, which was prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X, is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been completed at or as of the dates indicated, nor is it indicative of the future operating results or financial position of the combined company. The pro forma financial information does not reflect future nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations do not reflect future events that may occur after the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, including the potential realization of operating cost savings (synergies) or restructuring activities or other costs related to the planned integration of Rohm and Haas, and do not consider potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, expense efficiencies or asset dispositions (with the exception of the Rohm and Haas salt business).
Transaction Background
On April 1, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Pursuant to the July 10, 2008 Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the "Merger"), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
     The Company pursued the acquisition of Rohm and Haas to make the Company a leading specialty chemicals and advanced materials company, combining the two organizations' best-in-class technologies, broad geographic reach and strong industry channels to create a business portfolio with significant growth opportunities.
     Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Rohm and Haas common stock was converted into the right to receive cash of $78 per share, plus additional cash consideration of $0.97 per share. The additional cash consideration represented 8 percent per annum on the $78 per share consideration from January 10, 2009 to the closing of the Merger, less dividends declared by Rohm and Haas with a dividend record date between January 10, 2009 and the closing of the Merger. All options to purchase shares of common stock of Rohm and Haas granted under the Rohm and Haas stock option plans and all other equity-based compensation awards, whether vested or unvested as of April 1, 2009, became fully vested and converted into the right to receive cash of $78.97 per share, less any applicable exercise price. Total cash consideration paid to Rohm and Haas shareholders was $15.7 billion.
     Financing for the transaction included debt of $9.2 billion obtained through a Term Loan Agreement, as well as equity investments by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("BHI") and by the Kuwait Investment Authority ("KIA") in the form of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of 3 million shares for $3 billion (BHI) and 1 million shares for $1 billion (KIA).
     In connection with the closing of the Merger, the Company entered into an Investment Agreement with the Haas Trusts and Paulson & Co. Inc. ("Paulson"), each of whom was a significant shareholder of Rohm and Haas common stock at the time of the Merger. Under the Investment Agreement, the Haas Trusts and Paulson purchased from the Company 2.5 million shares (Haas Trusts  1.5 million shares; Paulson  1.0 million shares) of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion, with $1.5 billion from the Haas Trusts and $1.0 billion from Paulson. The Haas Trusts made an additional investment in 0.5 million shares of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C for an aggregate price of $500 million.
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Statements.
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Statements.
 
NOTES TO THE UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE A  BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
The acquisition of Rohm and Haas is being accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141R"). In accordance with SFAS 141R, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed have been measured based on preliminary estimates of acquisition-date fair values. The final determination of the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be based on the fair value of actual net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Rohm and Haas at the April 1, 2009 closing date. Because the pro forma financial information has been prepared based on preliminary estimates, the final amounts recorded for the acquisition-date fair values may differ from the information presented.
     The pro forma financial information, which was prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X, is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been completed at or as of the dates indicated, nor is it indicative of the future operating results or financial position of the combined company. The pro forma financial information does not reflect nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations do not reflect future events that may occur after the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, including the potential realization of operating cost savings (synergies) or restructuring activities or other costs related to the planned integration of Rohm and Haas, and do not consider potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, expense efficiencies or asset dispositions (with the exception of the Rohm and Haas salt business).
     Certain Rohm and Haas amounts have been reclassified to conform with the Company's basis of presentation.
NOTE B  PURCHASE PRICE
The calculation of the cash purchase price is as follows:
NOTE C  ASSETS ACQUIRED AND LIABILITIES ASSUMED
The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009, based on the current best estimates of management. Accordingly, the fair values of the assets and liabilities included in the table below are subject to change. The Company is in the process of finalizing its assessment of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The completion of the fair valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed may result in adjustments to the carrying value of Rohm and Haas' assets and liabilities, revisions of the remaining useful lives of fixed assets and/or revisions of the useful lives of intangible assets, and the determination of any residual amount that will be recognized as goodwill. The related depreciation and amortization expense for the acquired assets is therefore also subject to revision based on the final valuation.
     An increase/decrease in the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment or any identifiable intangible assets will decrease/increase the amount of goodwill to be recorded and may result in increased/decreased depreciation and/or amortization expense. The pro forma adjustments to reflect assets acquired and liabilities assumed at preliminary estimated fair values and the resulting goodwill are provided in the following table:
 
     As part of the purchase price of $15,681 million, $552 million in cash was paid to the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") on April 1, 2009 for 7.0 million shares of Rohm and Haas common stock held by the ESOP on April 1, 2009. This cash consideration is shown as "Restricted ESOP cash" in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet at March 31, 2009.
     Based on a review of Rohm and Haas' summary of significant accounting policies disclosed in Rohm and Haas' 2008 financial statements, as well as preliminary discussions with Rohm and Haas management, the nature and amount of any adjustments to conform the two companies' accounting policies are not expected to be significant. Further review of Rohm and Haas' accounting policies to conform the accounting policies of the two companies may impact actual results.
NOTE D  DEPRECIATION EXPENSE
The estimated increase in depreciation expense related to the estimated fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired from Rohm and Haas, depreciated over an estimated average life of 9 to 25 years, is $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $25 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The increase in depreciation expense was allocated $84 million to "Cost of sales," $4 million to "Research and development expenses," and $13 million to "Selling, general and administrative expenses" for the year ended December 31, 2008 based on Rohm and Haas 2008 expenses. For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the depreciation expense was allocated $21 million to "Cost of sales," $1 million to "Research and development expenses," and $3 million to "Selling, general and administrative expenses" for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
NOTE E  AMORTIZATION EXPENSE
The estimated increase in amortization expense related to the estimated fair value of certain intangible assets acquired from Rohm and Haas, primarily consisting of customer lists, technology and trademarks, amortized over an estimated average life of 10 to 16 years, is $257 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $64 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
NOTE F  AMORTIZATION OF DEBT
The estimated increase in interest expense related to the estimated fair value of debt acquired from Rohm and Haas is $58 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $15 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
NOTE G  INCOME TAXES
For purposes of this pro forma financial information, the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent has been used for all periods presented. This rate is an estimate and does not take into account any possible future tax events that may result for the ongoing combined company.
 
NOTE H  DIVESTITURES
As a condition of the United States Federal Trade Commission's approval of the Merger, the Company is required to divest a portion of its acrylic monomer business, a portion of its latex polymers business and its hollow sphere particle business within eight months of the closing of the Merger. Total net sales and cost of sales for these businesses amounted to approximately one percent of the Company's 2008 net sales and cost of sales. The pro forma financial information has been prepared to reflect the divestiture of these businesses effective March 31, 2009 for the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet and as of January 1, 2008 for the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations. The divestiture of these businesses is expected to have an immaterial impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Because there is no purchase agreement for these assets, for purposes of the pro forma financial information, a sale at book value was assumed, with proceeds reflected in cash and cash equivalents.
     On April 1, 2009, the Company announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell the stock of Morton International, Inc. ("Morton"), the salt business of Rohm and Haas, to K+S Aktiengesellschaft. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval, and is expected to close in mid-2009. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet has been prepared to reflect the sale of the salt business effective March 31, 2009. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations have been prepared to reflect the sale of the salt business effective January 1, 2008. The transaction values Morton at $1,675 million, with proceeds subject to customary post-closing adjustments. For purposes of the pro forma financial information, estimated net after-tax proceeds of $1,570 million have been applied to reduce the Term Loan balance ($1,226 million applied to "Long-term debt due within one year" and $344 million applied to "Long-Term Debt") (see Note J).
NOTE I  INTERCOMPANY TRANSACTIONS
Pro forma adjustments have been made to eliminate sales and the corresponding cost of sales between the Company and Rohm and Haas in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations. The impact of these transactions was immaterial to the Company.
NOTE J  DEBT FINANCING
Debt financing for the acquisition was provided by a $9.2 billion draw on a Term Loan Agreement ("Term Loan") on April 1, 2009. The Term Loan matures on April 1, 2010, provided however, that the original maturity date may be extended for an additional year at the option of the Company, for a maximum outstanding balance of $8.0 billion. The actual interest rate of the Term Loan and the resulting amounts that the Company will ultimately pay for the Term Loan can vary significantly and are dependent on the current short-term interest rates in effect, the mode of borrowing (Base Rate or Eurodollar), the Company's actual current long-term debt rating by Moody's and Standard & Poor's, the outstanding amount of the Term Loan at the end of each fiscal quarter, and the Company's progress toward key targets such as the issuance of equity financing, among other factors.
     For purposes of the pro forma financial information, it is assumed that the Company has applied estimated net after-tax proceeds of $1,570 million from the sale of the salt business of Rohm and Haas (see Note H) to the remaining outstanding balance of the Term Loan at March 31, 2009 for the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet and at January 1, 2008 for the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations, and that the balance of the Term Loan will remain outstanding for the full 24-month term of the Term Loan. The Company intends to repay the Term Loan in a period shorter than 24 months through a combination of proceeds obtained through asset sales, the issuance of debt securities and/or the issuance of equity securities. The timing and amount of these transactions are unknown and may significantly change the timing of the recognition of expense and total overall cost of the financing for the acquisition.
     For purposes of the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations, pursuant to the agreement, it is assumed the amounts outstanding under the Term Loan bear interest at one-year LIBOR of 187.75 basis points, plus 350 basis points based on the Company's current long-term credit rating of BBB-/Baa3. The pro forma financial information reflects interest expense related to the Term Loan of $865 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $381 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, which includes the amortization of all loan origination costs over the 24-month term of the Term Loan. Interest expense increases in the second year due to additional extension and draw fees to extend the Term Loan beyond 12 months.
     The amounts that the Company will ultimately pay may vary significantly from the above assumptions and will depend on the Company's actual credit rating, the actual amount outstanding under the Term Loan at the end of each fiscal quarter, credit received from the Rating Agencies for equity financing, the actual amount and terms of permanent debt and/or equity financing, the actual LIBOR rate, and the status of any potential asset sales, among other factors. A drop in the Company's long-term credit rating of one notch will increase interest expense for the Term Loan $77 million in the first year. An increase of LIBOR by 1/8 percentage point will increase interest expense for the Term Loan $10 million in the first year.
 
NOTE K  EQUITY FINANCING
Equity financing for the acquisition was provided by three series of preferred stock.
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
Equity securities in the form of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A ("preferred series A") were issued on April 1, 2009 to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in the amount of $3 billion (3 million shares) and the Kuwait Investment Authority in the amount of $1 billion (1 million shares). The Company will pay cumulative dividends on preferred series A at a rate of 8.5 percent per annum in either cash, shares of common stock, or any combination thereof, at the option of the Company. For purposes of the pro forma financial information, it is assumed that the dividends on preferred series A will be paid in cash, resulting in an annual cash dividend payment of $340 million which is reflected in this pro forma financial information. Shareholders of preferred series A may convert all or any portion of their shares, at their option, at any time, into shares of the Company's common stock at an initial conversion rate of 24.2010 shares of common stock for each share of preferred series A. Under certain circumstances, the Company will be required to adjust the conversion rate. On or after the fifth anniversary of the issuance date, if the common stock price exceeds $53.72 per share for any 20 trading days in a consecutive 30-day window, the Company may, at its option, at any time, in whole or in part, convert preferred series A into common stock at the then applicable conversion rate. For purposes of this pro forma financial information, it is assumed that no conversion has taken place and no changes to the conversion rate are required.
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
At the time of the Merger, the Haas Trusts and Paulson & Co. Inc. ("Paulson") purchased from the Company Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B ("preferred series B") in the amount of 2.5 million shares (Haas Trusts  1.5 millions shares; Paulson  1.0 million shares) for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion (Haas Trusts  $1.5 billion; Paulson  $1.0 billion). The Company will pay cumulative dividends on the preferred series B at a rate of 7 percent per annum in cash and 8 percent per annum either in cash or as an increase in the liquidation preference of preferred series B, at the Company's option. For purposes of this pro forma financial information, it is assumed that all dividends on preferred series B will be paid in cash, resulting in an annual cash dividend payment of $375 million which is reflected in this pro forma financial information.
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C
At the time of the Merger, the Haas Trusts invested $500 million in Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C ("preferred series C"). Prior to June 1, 2009, the Company will pay cumulative dividends on preferred series C at a rate of 7 percent per annum in cash and 8 percent per annum either in cash or as an increase in the liquidation preference of preferred series C, at the Company's option. On and after June 1, 2009, if preferred series C shares have not been converted to common stock, the Company will be required to pay cumulative dividends of 12 percent per annum in cash. At any time following ten full trading days after April 1, 2009 and before June 1, 2009, holders of preferred series C, at their option, may convert their shares into shares of the Company's common stock. The preferred series C shares automatically convert to common stock on the date immediately following the ten full trading days commencing on the date on which there is an effective shelf registration statement relating to the common stock underlying the preferred series C, if such registration statement is effective prior to June 1, 2009. In either case, all shares of preferred series C will convert into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion price per share of common stock equal to 95 percent of the average of the common stock volume-weighted average price for the ten trading days preceding the conversion.
     For purposes of this pro forma financial information, it is assumed that a filed shelf registration will become effective prior to June 1, 2009 and thus it is assumed that preferred series C will automatically convert to common stock. As a result, no preferred series C shares are shown as being outstanding in this pro forma financial information. For purposes of this pro forma financial information, it is assumed that the conversion price will be $11.82 per common share, based on 95 percent of the volume-weighted average price observed during the period of April 16, 2009 through April 29, 2009, resulting in the issuance of 43.4 million shares of common stock. The conversion price of $11.82 per common share is for illustrative purposes only, as the actual conversion price will be based on trading days in the future; thus the actual conversion amount will vary from the assumed conversion amount presented. This scenario assumes conversion by June 1, 2009 and thus an increase in liquidation preference equivalent to a 15 percent preferred dividend for 60 days ($13 million) on preferred series C is included in this pro forma financial information. If the preferred series C is not converted, the post-June 1, 2009 dividend of 12 percent would amount to $60 million annually.
     The above example is based on assumptions stated therein and is presented for illustrative purposes only. Actual results will vary based on the application of the applicable conversion formula set forth in the preferred series C certificate of designations to stock prices at the relevant time. The certificate of designations establishing the terms of the preferred series C is attached as Exhibit 3.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 1, 2009.
Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs of approximately $100 million were charged to "Additional paid-in capital" upon the issuance of preferred equity securities.
 
NOTE L  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
The calculation of pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Operations uses the basic weighted-average share count, as the effect of using the diluted share count would be antidilutive.
NOTE M  ACQUISITION-RELATED EXPENSES
Included in the actual 2008 results in the pro forma financial information are pretax charges totaling $89 million ($49 million Dow and $40 million Rohm and Haas) for legal expenses and other transaction costs related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Included in the actual first quarter of 2009 results are acquisition-related expenses totaling $81 million ($48 million Dow and $33 million Rohm and Haas). The pro forma financial information does not reflect additional acquisition-related expenses that could be incurred in future periods.
NOTE N  ESTIMATED ANNUAL COST SAVINGS
The Company expects the transaction to create $1.3 billion in estimated pretax annual cost synergies and savings including increased purchasing power for raw materials; manufacturing and supply chain work process improvements; and the elimination of redundant corporate overhead for shared services and governance. The Company also anticipates that the transaction will produce significant growth synergies through the application of each company's innovative technologies and as a consequence of the combined business' broader product portfolio in key industry segments with strong global growth rates. The pro forma financial information does not reflect any of these anticipated synergies.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The forward looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the SEC. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.


