FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20090401172700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01              
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On April 1, 2009 (the ), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ), dated July 10, 2008, among The Dow Chemical Company (the ), Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (), and Rohm and Haas Company (), Merger Subsidiary merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the ), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement (i) each outstanding share of Rohm and Haas common stock was converted into the right to receive an amount in cash equal to $78.97 and (ii) all options to purchase shares of common stock of Rohm and Haas granted under the Rohm and Haas stock option plans and all other equity based compensation awards, whether vested or unvested as of April 1, 2009, became fully vested and converted into the right to receive such amount of cash, less any applicable exercise price.  To finance the payment of the aggregate merger consideration, the Company used a combination of proceeds from borrowings under the Loan Agreement (as defined below) described in Item 2.03 below, proceeds from the issuance and sale of Preferred Stock (as defined below) described in Item 3.02 below and cash on hand.
Closing Date
Merger Agreement
Company
Merger Subsidiary
Rohm and Haas
Merger
 
Additional information and details of the Merger Agreement were previously disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2008, and are incorporated by reference herein.  Any description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete copy of the Merger Agreement filed as an exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2008, which complete copy of the Merger Agreement is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 2.03              
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
The Company, as borrower, entered into a Term Loan Agreement (the ) with the lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders on September 8, 2008, and entered into the First Amendment to Term Loan Agreement on March 5, 2009 (the ) in order to amend the Original Loan Agreement (as so amended, the ). Under the Loan Agreement, the lenders committed to lend to the Company an aggregate principal amount that will not exceed the sum of each of their commitments, totaling U.S.$12,500,000,000, in a single term borrowing on the date of the consummation of the Merger.
Original Loan Agreement
First Amendment
Loan Agreement
 
On the Closing Date, the Company drew down the commitments under the Loan Agreement in a total aggregate amount of $9,225,500,000.  The Company used the net proceeds to partially finance the Merger and to pay costs and expenses in connection therewith.
 
Additional information and details of the Loan Agreement were previously disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Companys Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on September 9, 2008 and March 6, 2009, and are incorporated by reference herein.  Any description of the Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete copy of the Original Loan Agreement and the First Amendment filed as exhibits to the Companys Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on September 9, 2008 and March 6, 2009, respectively, which complete copies of the Original Loan Agreement and the First Amendment are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 3.02              
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
 
To partially finance the payment of the merger consideration, on April 1, 2009, the Company issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the ) to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. () and 1,000,000 shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
Berkshire
 
2
 
Convertible Preferred Stock to The Kuwait Investment Authority (), at an aggregate price of $4,000,000,000.
KIA
 
The powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are specified in the certificate of designations (the ).  The material terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were previously disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2008, and are incorporated by reference herein.  The foregoing description of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Series A Certificate of Designations which is attached as an exhibit hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
Series A Certificate of Designations
 
At any time when dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have not been paid in full, the Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, declare or pay any dividend on, make any distributions relating to the shares of the Companys common stock, par value $2.50 per share (the ) (or other junior stock), or redeem, purchase, acquire (either directly or through any subsidiary) or make a liquidation payment relating to, the Common Stock (or other junior stock), or make any guarantee payment with respect thereto.  Additionally, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has no maturity date and will rank senior to the outstanding Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions in liquidation.
Common Stock
 
The issuance and sale of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will be made pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933.  Each of Berkshire and KIA has represented to the Company that it is an accredited investor pursuant to Rule 501 of Regulation D.
 
On April 1, 2009, the Company also issued and sold 1,500,000 shares of its Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the ) to certain trusts for the benefit of charitable beneficiaries and certain Haas family members (the ) and 1,000,000 shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to certain funds and accounts managed by Paulson & Co. Inc., each of whom was a significant shareholder of Rohm and Haas, at an aggregate price of $2,500,000,000. Additionally, the Company issued and sold 500,000 shares of its Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (the  and together with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Perpetual Preferred Stock, the ) to the Haas Family Trusts at an aggregate price of $500,000,000.  The material terms of the Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock were previously disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 12, 2009, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Perpetual Preferred Stock
Haas Family Trusts
Series C Convertible Preferred Stock
Preferred Stock
 
Item 3.03              
Material Modification of the Rights of Security Holders
The information included in Item 3.02 above regarding the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
 
Item 5.03              
Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws; Change in Fiscal Year
On March 31,2009, the Company filed the Series A Certificate of Designations and a certificate of designations relating to each of the Perpetual Preferred Stock (the ) and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (the ) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware for the purpose of fixing the designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions applicable to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, respectively.  As contemplated by the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Series A Certificate of Designations was
 
Series B Certificate of Designations
Series C Certificate of Designations
 
3
 
approved by the Board on October 10, 2008, and its final form was approved by the Executive Committee of the Board on October 25, 2008.  The final forms of the Series B Certificate of Designations and Series C Certificate of Designations were approved by the Board on March 27, 2009.  Each of the Series A Certificate of Designations, Series B Certificate of Designations and Series C Certificate of Designations became effective upon filing and are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively.
Item 7.01              
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on April 1, 2009is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The attached Exhibit 99.1 is furnished in its entirety pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 8.01              
Other Events
 
In connection with the offering and sale of the Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant relating to each of the Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, each dated April 1, 2009, for the benefit of holders of the Companys currently outstanding 7 3/8% Debentures due 2029 whereby the Company agreed that it will only redeem or repurchase shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock or the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock on or before the Termination Date (as defined in each of the Replacement Capital Covenants) with the proceeds that it has received during the 180 days prior to the date of such redemption or repurchase from the sale of certain qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Perpetual Preferred Stock or the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, as applicable.
The foregoing description of the Replacement Capital Covenants is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Replacement Capital Covenants relating to the Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, which are attached as exhibits hereto as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
Additionally, on April 1, 2009, in connection with the Merger, the Company entered into guarantees of Rohm and Haas $250 million outstanding 5.60% Notes due 2013, $850 million outstanding 6.00% Notes due 2017 and $1 billion outstanding 9.80% Debentures due 2020.  The forms of these guarantees are attached as exhibits hereto as Exhibits 99.4, 99.5 and 99.6 respectively.
Item 9.01              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  April 1, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that:
 
1.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the Certificate of Incorporation) fixes the total number of shares of all classes of capital stock that the Company shall have the authority to issue at one billion five hundred million (1,500,000,000) shares of common stock, par value $2.50 per share, and two hundred fifty million (250,000,000) shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
 
2.  The Certificate of Incorporation expressly grants to the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board of Directors) authority to provide for the issuance of the shares of preferred stock in series, and to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
 
3.  Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors, by action duly taken on October 8, 2008, adopted resolutions (i) authorizing the issuance and sale of up to 4,000,000 shares of the Companys preferred stock, (ii) authorizing the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors to approve the final form of the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (including Exhibit A attached hereto) substantially in the form approved by the Board of Directors, with such changes, subject to certain exceptions, as the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors may approve, and (iii) establishing the number of shares to be included in this series of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, by action duly taken on October 25, 2008, adopted resolutions (i) approving this final form of the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A and (ii) fixing the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of this
 
1
 
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as follows:
 
Section 1.  .
Designation
 
The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the Convertible Preferred Stock).  Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Convertible Preferred Stock.  Convertible Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock, if any, and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any.
 
Section 2.  .
Number of Shares
 
The number of designated shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 4,000,000.  That number from time to time may be decreased (but not below the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized.  The Company shall not have the authority to issue fractional shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Section 3.  .  As used herein with respect to Convertible Preferred Stock:
Definitions
 
 of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person.  For the purposes of this definition, control when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms controlling and controlled have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
 means a procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Company and one by the Holder (or if there is more than one Holder, a majority in interest of Holders), shall mutually agree upon the determinations then the subject of appraisal.  Each party shall deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 15 days after the Appraisal Procedure is invoked.  If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are unable to agree upon the amount in question, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10 days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers or, if such two first appraisers fail to agree upon the appointment of a third appraiser, such appointment shall be made by the American Arbitration Association, or any organization successor thereto, from a panel of arbitrators having experience in appraisal of the subject matter to be appraised.  The decision of the third appraiser so appointed and chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of such third appraiser.  If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount by which the other determination is disparate from the middle determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Holder; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be binding upon the Company and the Holder.  The
Appraisal Procedure
 
2
 
costs of conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne equally by the Company and the Holder.
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 9(j).
Base Price
 
 has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
Board of Directors
 
 means any weekday that is not a legal holiday in New York, New York and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to be closed.
Business Day
 
 of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price, of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date.  If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained by the Company for this purpose.  For the purposes of determining the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the trading day preceding, on or following the occurrence of an event, (i) that trading day shall be deemed to commence immediately after the regular scheduled closing time of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time and (ii) that trading day shall end at the next regular scheduled closing time, or if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time (for the avoidance of doubt, and as an example, if the Closing Price is to be determined as of the last trading day preceding a specified event and the closing time of trading on a particular day is 4:00 p.m. and the specified event occurs at 5:00 p.m. on that day, the Closing Price would be determined by reference to such 4:00 p.m. closing price).
Closing Price
 
 means the common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share, or any other shares of the capital stock of the Company into which such shares of common stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a).
Constituent Person
 
 means the Transfer Agent acting in its capacity as conversion agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
Conversion Agent
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 10(c).
Conversion at the Option of the Company Date
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 8(a).
Conversion Date
 
3
 
 at any time means, for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, a dollar amount equal to $1,000 divided by the then applicable Conversion Rate.
Conversion Price
 
 means for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, 24.2010 shares of Common Stock, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.
Conversion Rate
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.
Convertible Preferred Stock
 
 per share of Common Stock as of a Record Date for any issuance, distribution or other action means the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day before the Ex-Date with respect to such issuance, distribution, or other action, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 11.
Current Market Price
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Dividend Payment Date
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Dividend Period
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Dividend Record Date
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iv).
Dividend Threshold Amount
 
 when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the shares of Common Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
Ex-Date
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a).
Exchange Property
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(v).
Expiration Date
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(v).
Expiration Time
 
 means, with respect to any security or other property, the fair market value of such security or other property as determined by the Board of Directors, acting in good faith.  If the Holders of a majority of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock at the time outstanding object in writing to the Board of Directors calculation of fair market value within 10 days of receipt of written notice thereof and such Holders and the Company are unable to agree on fair market value during the 10-day period following the delivery of such Holders objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine Fair Market Value by delivering written notification thereof not later than the 30th day after delivery of such Holders objection.
Fair Market Value
 
 means the Person in whose name the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Company, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
Holder
 
4
 
 means the date of initial issuance of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Issue Date
 
 means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Company, other than Parity Stock, now existing or hereafter authorized not expressly ranking senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Junior Stock
 
 means the occurrence, prior to any Conversion Date, of one of the following:
Make-Whole Acquisition
 
(i)         a person or group within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate beneficial owner, as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding common equity of the Company; or
 
(ii)         consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Company or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any Person other than one of the Companys subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that beneficially owned (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Company immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction; , , that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or depositary receipts in respect of common stock that are (or upon issuance will be) traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area.
provided
however
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a).
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a).
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a).
Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date
 
 means the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole Acquisition.  Except in the case of a Make-Whole Acquisition referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, if such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share of Common Stock.  If (i) such consideration consists of any property other than cash, or (ii) in the case of a Make-Whole Acquisition referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately prior to the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.
Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price
 
5
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a).
Make-Whole Shares
 
 means any of the following events:
Market Disruption Event
 
(i)         any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading of the Common Stock by any exchange or quotation system on which the Closing Price is determined pursuant to the definition of the term Closing Price (the ) during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange as to securities generally, or otherwise relating to the Common Stock or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or
Relevant Exchange
 
(ii)         any event (other than an event described in clause (iii)) that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Company in its reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange.
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(i).
Nonpayment
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 10(c).
Notice of Conversion at the Option of the Company
 
 means a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer, any Executive Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller or the Treasurer.
Officers Certificate
 
 means any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized that expressly ranks equally with the Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Parity Stock
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b).
Past Due Dividends
 
 means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
Person
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(i).
Preferred Stock Director
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(v).
Purchased Shares
 
 means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or
Record Date
 
6
 
converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
 
 means the Transfer Agent acting in its capacity as registrar for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
Registrar
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iv).
Relevant Date
 
 has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term Market Disruption Event.
Relevant Exchange
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a).
Reorganization Event
 
 has the meaning set forth in Rule 144(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Restricted Securities
 
 means any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized which expressly ranks senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock and has preference or priority over the Convertible Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Senior Stock
 
 means a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred a Market Disruption Event.
Trading Day
 
 means BNY Mellon Shareowner Services acting as Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
Transfer Agent
 
 per share of Common Stock on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg (or, if Bloomberg ceases to publish such price, any successor service reasonably chosen by the Company) page DOW.N<Equity> VAP (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant Trading Day until the close of trading on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained for this purpose by the Company).
VWAP
 
Section 4.  .
Dividends
 
(a)   .  Holders shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends payable quarterly in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, commencing on the first such day occurring after a full calendar quarter has elapsed since the Issue Date; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day
Rate
provided
however
 
7
 
that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable, a ). The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date (or, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, from and including the date of issuance of the Convertible Preferred Stock) to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a .  Dividends on each share of Convertible Preferred Stock will accrue daily at a rate per annum of $85, payable for each full Dividend Period in equal quarterly installments; , , that for the Dividend Period from and including the Issue Date and ending on the day that is immediately prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, dividends will be computed on the basis described in the last sentence of this Section 4(a) as being applicable to such Dividend Period.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock will be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the relevant Dividend Payment Date (each, a ), whether or not such day is a Business Day.  The amount of dividends payable will be computed on the basis of a 360 day year of twelve 30-day months, and for any period of less than a month, actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
provided
however
Dividend Record Date
 
(b)   .  Dividends may be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock, or any combination thereof, at the Companys discretion; , that if the Company elects to pay any dividend in shares of Common Stock or in a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash, the Company shall provide the Holder with notice thereof immediately in connection with the declaration thereof, , , that if any shares of Common Stock paid by the Company as a dividend are Restricted Securities, then the Company shall only pay dividends in shares of Common Stock if resales thereof are covered by an effective registration statement.  If the Company elects to make any dividend payment, or any portion thereof, in shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be valued for such purpose at 97% of the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately prior to the relevant Record Date.
Payment
provided
provided
further
 
If the Company fails to pay a full dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock, then dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock shall continue to accrue and cumulate at a rate per annum of $85 per share, and, commencing on the day after such failure to pay occurs, the Convertible Preferred Stock shall, in addition, accrue and cumulate additional dividends at an annual rate equal to 10.0%, compounded quarterly, on the aggregate accrued amount of any such unpaid dividends (including additional dividends), with the amount of such additional dividend accrual being added to other past due dividends (and being referred to herein, together with the aggregate accrued amount of all such unpaid dividends, as the ) up to and including the date that all such Past Due Dividends shall have been declared and paid in full.
Past Due Dividends
 
(c)   .  So long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends (including Past Due Dividends) on all outstanding shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock have been declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable Record Date, the Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, declare or pay any dividend on, make any distributions relating to Junior Stock, or redeem, purchase, acquire (either directly or through any subsidiary) or make a liquidation payment relating to, any Junior Stock, or make any guarantee payment with respect thereto, other than:
Priority of Dividends
 
8
 
(i)     purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants;
 
(ii)    purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy stock, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan, so long as any such contractually binding requirement was entered into at a time when there are no Past Due Dividends or any Past Due Dividends have been declared and paid in full;
 
(iii)   as a result of an exchange or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or the securities of another company, for any other class or series of Junior Stock;
 
(iv)   the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; or
 
(v)    the payment of any dividends in respect of Junior Stock where the dividend is in the form of the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid.
 
Except as provided below, for so long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, if dividends are not declared and paid in full upon the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock with the same dividend payment date or with a dividend payment date during a Dividend Period, all dividends declared upon shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any such Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that all Past Due Dividends as of the end of the then-current Dividend Period per share of Convertible Preferred Stock and all accrued and unpaid dividends as of the end of the applicable dividend period per share of any Parity Stock (including, in the case of any such Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued and unpaid dividends) bear to each other.
 
Subject to the foregoing, dividends payable in cash, stock or otherwise, as may be determined by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock and Parity Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and Holders will not be entitled to participate in those dividends.
 
(d)   .  If the Conversion Date for any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is prior to the close of business on a Dividend Record Date, the Holder of such shares will not be entitled to any such dividend.  If the Conversion Date for any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is after the close of business on a Dividend Record Date but prior to the corresponding Dividend Payment Date, the Holder of such shares shall be entitled to receive such dividend, notwithstanding the conversion of such shares prior to the Dividend Payment Date.  However, such shares, upon surrender for conversion, must be accompanied by the dividend on such shares.
Conversion Following a Record Date
 
9
 
Section 5.  .
Liquidation Rights
 
(a)   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, Holders shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Company may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any Senior Stock or Parity Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Companys creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and the Company shall also declare and deliver as a dividend or pay any and all dividends accrued thereon from the last Dividend Payment Date and all Past Due Dividends,  to, but excluding, the date of such payment.  Holders shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
Liquidation
 
(b)   .  If the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay in full the aggregate liquidating distributions required to be paid pursuant to Section 5(a) to all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the Holders and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which they would otherwise be entitled.
Partial Payment
 
(c)   .  If the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock are entitled pursuant to Section 5(a) have been paid, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
 
(d)   .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Company into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Company be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
 
Section 6.  .
Redemption
 
The Convertible Preferred Stock is perpetual and has no maturity date and shall not be redeemable or callable at the option of the Company.
 
Section 7.  .
Right of the Holders to Convert
 
Each Holder shall have the right, at such Holders option, to convert all or any portion of such Holders Convertible Preferred Stock at any time into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate per share of Convertible Preferred Stock (subject to the conversion procedures, and with the effect, set forth in Section 8), plus cash in lieu of fractional shares as set out in Section 11(i).
 
10
 
Section 8.  .
Conversion Procedures and Effect of Conversion
 
(a)   .  A Holder must do each of the following in order to convert shares of Convertible Preferred Stock:
Conversion Procedure
 
(i)     complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent;
 
(ii)    deliver a certificate or certificates representing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted to the Conversion Agent;
 
(iii)   if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;
 
(iv)   if required, pay any stock transfer, documentary, stamp or similar taxes not payable by the Company pursuant to Section 22; and
 
(v)    if required, surrender the dividend payable in respect of such shares pursuant to the last sentence of Section 4(d).
 
The date on which a Holder complies with the procedures in this Section 8(a) with regard to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is referred to as the  applicable to such shares.  The Conversion Agent shall, on a Holders behalf, convert the Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by such Holder described above.
Conversion Date
 
(b)   .  Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Conversion Date applicable to any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, dividends shall no longer accrue or be declared on any such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding.  Holders who convert shares of Convertible Preferred Stock will not be entitled to, nor will the Conversion Rate be adjusted for, any Past Due Dividends in respect of such shares.
Effect of Conversion
 
(c)   .  The Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock on a Conversion Date shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock and/or securities as of the close of business on such Conversion Date.  In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Company shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of the Company.
Record Holder of Underlying Securities as of Conversion Date
 
(d)   .  Except pursuant to Section 11, no adjustment to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock being converted on a Conversion Date or to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion thereof shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of the Common Stock as of any date prior to the close of business
No Rights to Common Stock Prior to Conversion
 
11
 
on such Conversion Date.  Prior to the close of business on such Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion of such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such Common Stock or other securities (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion, and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
(e)   .  Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock converted in accordance with this Certificate of Designations, or otherwise reacquired by the Company, will resume the status of authorized and unissued preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
Status of Converted or Reacquired Shares
 
Section 9.  .
Conversion upon Make-Whole Acquisition
 
(a)   .  In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to convert its shares of Convertible Preferred Stock (a ) during the period (the ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition (the ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock set forth in Section 9(b) below (the ).
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period
Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date
Make-Whole Shares
 
(b)   .  The number of Make-Whole Shares shall be determined by reference to the table below based on the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price (where each entry in the column entitled Effective Date refers to the Issue Date or an anniversary of the Issue Date):
Number of Make-Whole Shares
 
(c)   (i) The actual Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price and Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date may not be set forth on the table, in which case:
 
(A)    if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts on the table and/or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates are between two dates on the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts
 
12
 
and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;
 
(B)    if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $70 per share (subject to adjustment as described in clause (ii) below), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock;
 
(C)    if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than $34.43 per share (subject to adjustment as described in Section 9(c)(ii) below), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock; and
 
(D)    if the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is subsequent to the tenth anniversary of the Issue Date, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
(ii)    The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11 and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted.  The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices will equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.  Each of the number of Make-Whole Shares in the table shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11.
 
(d)   .  On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the Company anticipates consummating the Make-Whole Acquisition (or, if later, or in the case of a Make-Whole Acquisition referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, promptly after the Company discovers that the Make-Whole Acquisition will occur or has occurred), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Company, by overnight courier to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Company.  Such notice shall contain:
Initial Make-Whole Acquisition Notice
 
(i)    the date on which the Make-Whole Acquisition is anticipated to be effected (or, in the case of a Make-Whole Acquisition referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, the date on which the Schedule TO or other schedule, form or report referred to in such clause was filed); and
 
(ii)   the date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised.
 
(e)   .  On the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, a final written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Company, by overnight courier to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Company.  Such notice shall contain:
Final Make-Whole Acquisition Notice
 
(i)    the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Conversion option must be exercised;
 
(ii)   the number of Make-Whole Shares and, if applicable, the Base Price;
 
13
 
(iii)  the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of Common Stock; and
 
(iv)   the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition.
 
(f)   .  To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (e) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 8(a) and indicate that it is exercising its Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option.
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Procedure
 
(g)   .  Upon a Make Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall deliver to the Holder the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, including any Make-Whole Shares required to be delivered pursuant to Section 9(a), or, in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition in which the Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for other securities or property (including cash), the amount of securities or property (including cash) per each share of the Common Stock, including any Make-Whole Shares required to be delivered pursuant to Section 9(a), so deliverable upon conversion into which or for which each share of Common Stock is so changed or exchanged.
Delivery upon Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
 
(h)   .  If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this Section 9, the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by it will remain outstanding until otherwise subsequently converted, but no Make-Whole Shares will be deliverable upon any such subsequent conversion.  In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition in which the Companys Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for other securities or property (including cash), each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled, upon such subsequent conversion, to an amount per share equal to the consideration into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
Unconverted Shares Remain Outstanding
 
(i)   .  In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock representing less than all the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion the Company shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to such Holder, at the expense of the Company, a certificate evidencing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.
Partial Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
 
(j)   .  If the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition is less than the Conversion Price, a Holder may convert each share of Convertible Preferred Stock during the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period at an adjusted Conversion Price equal to the greater of (1) the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price and (2) $17.22 (the ).  The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate of the Convertible Preferred Stock is adjusted pursuant to Section 11.  The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the
Alternative Conversion
Base Price
 
14
 
adjustment giving rise to the Base Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.  In lieu of issuing Common Stock upon conversion in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition where the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than the Conversion Price, the Company may, at its option, pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest one-hundredth of one cent) equal to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price for each share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon conversion.
 
Section 10.  .
Conversion at the Option of the Company
 
(a)   .  On or after the fifth anniversary of the Issue Date, the Company shall have the right, at its option, at any time or from time to time, to cause some or all of the Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of Common Stock at the then-applicable Conversion Rate if, (i) for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day preceding the date the Company delivers a Notice of Conversion at the Option of the Company, the Closing Price of the Common Stock exceeds 130% of the then-applicable Conversion Price of the Convertible Preferred Stock and (ii) the Company has declared and paid, or has declared and set apart for payment, any Past Due Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Company Conversion Right
 
(b)   .  If the Company elects to cause less than all the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted under clause (a) above, the Conversion Agent shall select the Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted on a pro rata basis.  If the Conversion Agent selects a portion of a Holders Convertible Preferred Stock for partial conversion at the option of the Company and such Holder converts a portion of its shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, both converted portions will be deemed to be from the portion selected for conversion at the option of the Company under this Section 10.
Partial Conversion
 
(c)   .  In order to exercise the conversion right described in this Section 10, the Company shall provide notice of such conversion to each Holder (such notice, a ).  The Conversion Date shall be a date selected by the Company (the ) and shall be no more than 15 days after the date on which the Company provides such Notice of Conversion at the Option of the Company.  In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation, the Notice of Conversion at the Option of the Company shall state, as appropriate:
Conversion Procedure
Notice of Conversion at the Option of the Company
Conversion at the Option of the Company Date
 
(i)     the Conversion at the Option of the Company Date;
 
(ii)    the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each share of Convertible Preferred Stock; and
 
(iii)   the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted.
 
Section 11.  .
Anti-Dilution Adjustments
 
(a)   Adjustments.  The Conversion Rate will be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances:
 
15
 
(i)         the issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock, or a subdivision or combination of Common Stock, in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR = CR x (OS / OS)
1
0
1
0
 
where,
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (i) shall be effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for the event giving rise to the adjustment.  If any such event is declared but does not occur, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors announces that such event shall not occur, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such event had not been declared.
 
(ii)  the dividend, distribution or other issuance to all holders of Common Stock of (A) rights (other than pursuant to a stockholders rights plan) or warrants entitling them to purchase shares of Common Stock or (B) securities convertible into Common Stock, in either case for a period expiring 45 days or less from the date of issuance thereof, at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price as of the Record Date for such issuance, in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR = CR x (OS + X) / (OS + Y)
1
0
0
0
 
where,
 
 
16
 
For purposes of this clause (ii), in determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the holders to purchase the Common Stock at less than the Current Market Price as of the Record Date, there shall be taken into account any consideration the Company receives for such rights or warrants (or convertible securities), and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be the Fair Market Value thereof.
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (ii) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such issuance.  In the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to issue such rights or warrants, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such issuance had not been declared.  To the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.
 
(iii) (a) the dividend or other distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Company (other than Common Stock) or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, rights (other than pursuant to a stockholders rights plan) or warrants issued by it, but excluding any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (i) or (ii) above, clause (iv) below, or Section 12), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR = CR x SP / (SP  FMV)
1
0
0
0
 
where,
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iii)(a) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution.
 
(b) However, if the transaction that would otherwise give rise to an adjustment pursuant to clause (iii)(a) above is one pursuant to which the payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a Spin-Off) that on the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off are traded (or are traded on a when-issued basis) on any securities exchange, market or automated
 
17
 
quotation system, then the Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR = CR x (FMV + MP) / MP
1
0
0
0
0
 
where,
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iii)(b) shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the last Trading Day of the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off; provided, that the Conversion Rate applicable to any conversion occurring during such five Trading Days shall be determined by applying the formula set forth above except that all references to five consecutive Trading Days shall be replaced with such lesser number of consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off and ending on and including the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of such conversion.
 
In the event that any dividend or distribution described in clauses (iii)(a) and (b) above is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or make such distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
(iv)  the Company makes a distribution per share of Common Stock as of any date (the ) of cash to all holders of Common Stock, and the sum (the ) of such distribution and all prior distributions of cash per share of Common Stock paid since the Issue Date exceeds the sum (the ) of the hypothetical cash distributions that would have been paid on a share of Common Stock had such distributions been paid quarterly (commencing with the first cash dividend paid since the Issue Date) and increased at a compound annual growth rate of 5.0%, compounded quarterly, from
Relevant Date
Aggregate Dividend Amount
Dividend Threshold Amount
 
18
 
$0.42 per share as of July 30, 2008, through and including the Relevant Date, in which event, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR = CR x SP / ( SP  C+ C)
1
0
0
0
1
2
 
where,
 
 
The Dividend Threshold Amount and the Aggregate Dividend Amount (but not the compound annual growth rate of 5.0% compounded quarterly) shall be adjusted on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to this Section 11; , that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount or the Aggregate Dividend Amount for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (iv).
provided
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iv) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such distribution.  In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
 
(v)  the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last day on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the ), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Expiration Date
 
CR = CR x [(FMV + (SP x OS)] / (SP x OS)
1
0
1
1
1
0
 
where,
 
 
19
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (v) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date.  In the event that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made.
 
(b)   .  All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated by the Company to the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share).  No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent; provided, however, that any such adjustment that is not required to be made will be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment, and provided further, that any such adjustment of less than one percent that has not been made will be made upon any Conversion Date.
Calculation of Adjustments
 
(c)   .
When No Adjustment Required
 
(i)     Except as otherwise provided in this Section 11, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing, or for the repurchase of Common Stock.
 
(ii)    No adjustment of the Conversion Rate need be made as a result of the issuance of, the distribution of separate certificates representing, the exercise or redemption of, or the termination or invalidation of, rights pursuant to any stockholder rights plans; , , that to the extent that the Company has a stockholder rights plan in effect on a Conversion Date, the Holder shall receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the rights under such rights plan, unless, prior to any such Conversion Date, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company made a distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Company or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, rights or warrants issued by it) as described in
provided
however
 
20
 
Section 11(a)(iii), subject to (x) readjustment for only that portion of such rights or warrants which expire or terminate or (y) readjustment in the event of the redemption of such rights or warrants, except that any such readjustment shall be calculated net of the aggregate value of the consideration payable in connection with any such redemption.
 
(iii)   No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made:
 
(A)    upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan in which purchases are made at market prices on the date or dates of purchase, without discount, and whether or not the Company bears the ordinary costs of administration and operation of the plan, including brokerage commissions;
 
(B)    upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase such shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries;
 
(C)    upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of October 27, 2008; or
 
(D)    for a change in the par value of the Common Stock.
 
(iv)   No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 11(a), if the Holder, as a result of holding the Convertible Preferred Stock and without having to convert the Convertible Preferred Stock, receives the cash, securities, assets, property or other benefits in such transaction on the same basis and at the same time as if such Holder held the full number of shares of Common Stock into which its shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may then be converted.
 
(v)    No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made to the extent that such adjustment would result in the Conversion Price being less than the par value of the Common Stock.
 
(vi)   Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11 to reduce the Conversion Rate below the then par value (if any) of the Common Stock, the Company shall take any and all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price as so adjusted.
 
(d)   .  After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 11, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Section 11 shall cause an adjustment to such Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
Successive Adjustments
 
(e)   .  For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that would trigger an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11 under more than one subsection hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in
Multiple Adjustments
 
21
 
multiple adjustments hereunder; provided, however, that if more than one subsection of this Section 11 is applicable to a single event, the subsection shall be applied that produces the largest adjustment.
 
(f)   .  The Company may, but shall not be required to, make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by this Section 11, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to any holders of shares of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock or issuance of rights or warrants to purchase or subscribe for stock or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes or for any other reason.
Other Adjustments
 
(g)   .  Whenever a Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided under Section 11, the Company shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Company is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware) or the date the Company makes an adjustment pursuant to Section 11(f):
Notice of Adjustments
 
(i)      compute the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate in accordance with this Section 11 and prepare and transmit to the Conversion Agent an Officers Certificate setting forth the applicable Conversion Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and
 
(ii)      provide a written notice to the Holders of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate.
 
(h)   .  The Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist that may require any adjustment of the applicable Conversion Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same.  The Conversion Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officers Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 11(g) and any adjustment contained therein and the Conversion Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate.  The Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, that may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any Convertible Preferred Stock; and the Conversion Agent makes no representation with respect thereto.  The Conversion Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Section 11.
Conversion Agent
 
(i)   .  No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued to holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock upon conversion.  In lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable, holders will be entitled to receive an amount in cash equal to the fraction of a share of Common Stock, multiplied by the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately
Fractional Shares
 
22
 
preceding the applicable Conversion Date.  In order to determine whether the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued to a Holder upon the conversion of such Holder's shares of Convertible Preferred Stock will include a fractional share (in lieu of which cash would be paid hereunder), such determination shall be based on the aggregate number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock of such Holder that are being converted on any single Conversion Date.
 
Section 12.  .
Adjustment for Reorganization Events
 
(a)  Reorganization Events.  In the event of:
 
(1) any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another person pursuant to which the Common Stock is changed into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Company or another person;
 
(2) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another person of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock is converted into cash, securities or other property; or
 
(3) any statutory exchange of securities of the Company with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition) or reclassification of the Common Stock into other securities;
 
(each of which is referred to as a ) each share of the Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event will, without the consent of the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock, become convertible into the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property (the ) receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest on such Exchange Property, and without any right to dividends or distribution on such Exchange Property which have a record date that is prior to the applicable Conversion Date) per share of Common Stock by a holder of Common Stock that is not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a ), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-Affiliates; that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by a Person other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof, then for the purpose of this Section 12(a), the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event will be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).  On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on such Conversion Date of such securities, cash or other property received per share of Common Stock, as determined in accordance with this Section 12.
Reorganization Event
Exchange Property
Constituent Person
provided
 
(b)  .  In the event that the holders of the shares of Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the types and
Exchange Property Election
 
23
 
amounts of consideration received by the holders of the shares of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).  The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms hereof shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date.
 
(c)  .  The above provisions of this Section 12 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 11 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Company (or any other issuer) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
Successive Reorganization Events
 
(d)  .  The Company (or any successor) shall, 20 days prior to the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property.  Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12.
Reorganization Event Notice
 
Section 13.  .
Voting Rights
 
(a)  .  The Holders shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in Section 13(b) below or as required by Delaware law.
General
 
(b)  .
Special Voting Right
 
(i)     .  If and whenever dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not) (a ), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the Holders (together with holders of any class or series of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to class or series (and with voting rights allocated pro rata based on the liquidation preference of each such class or series), to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Company to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the Holders and the holders of any such other class or series shall not be entitled to elect such directors to the extent such election would cause the Company to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Companys securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors, and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors.  Each such director so elected is referred to as a .
Voting Right
Nonpayment
Preferred Stock Director
 
(ii)    .  The election of the Preferred Stock Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the Holders and any other class or series of stock of the Company having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 13(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Company may, and upon the written request of the Holders of at least 20% of the Convertible Preferred Stock or the holders of at least 20%
Election
 
24
 
of such other series (addressed to the secretary at the Companys principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the Holders and any such other class or series of preferred stock for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 13(b)(iii) below.  The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
 
(iii)   .  Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Companys by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders.  If the secretary of the Company does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any Holder may (at the expense of the Company) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 13(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Company.  The Preferred Stock Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 13(b)(iv).  In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the Holders (together with holders of any other class of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
Notice of Special Meeting
 
(iv)    .  Whenever the Company has declared and paid or declared and set aside for payment in full all Past Due Dividends, then the right of the Holders to elect the Preferred Stock Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Stock Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 13(b).
Termination; Removal
 
(c)  .  So long as any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the Holders of at least 50.1% of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a class with all other series of Parity Stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon (and with voting rights allocated pro rata based on the liquidation preference of each such class or series), given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, will be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:
Senior Issuances; Adverse Changes
 
(i)     any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Convertible Preferred Stock) or the Companys by-laws that would alter or change the voting powers, dividend
 
25
 
rights, preferences or special rights (including conversion rights) of the Convertible Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely (, , that to the extent that any such amendment, alteration or repeal relates solely to an increase in the amount of the authorized or issued preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into Parity Stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock) or Junior Stock, then such amendment, alteration or repeal will not be deemed to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the Convertible Preferred Stock, and Holders will have no right to vote on such an increase, creation or issuance);
provided
however
 
(ii)    any amendment or alteration of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Convertible Preferred Stock) to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock; or
 
(iii)   any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Convertible Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, taken as a whole, as are not less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, of the Convertible Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole, and (z) if such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock do not remain outstanding, immediately prior to or concurrent with the consummation thereof, all Past Due Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock to the date of consummation, whether or not declared, have been paid in full.
 
If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 13(c) would adversely affect the Convertible Preferred Stock but would not similarly adversely affect all other series of preferred stock, then only the Convertible Preferred Stock and each other series of preferred stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (and with voting rights allocated pro rata based on the liquidation preference of each such class or series) in lieu of all other series of preferred stock.
 
Section 14.  .
Preemption
 
The Holders shall not have any preemptive rights.
 
26
 
Section 15.  .
Creation of Junior Stock or Parity Stock
 
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, without the vote of the Holders, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, other than Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Section 16.  .
Repurchase
 
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, and subject to the provisions of Section 6, the Company may purchase and sell Convertible Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof may determine; , , that the Company shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent; , , , that in the event that the Company beneficially owns any Convertible Preferred Stock, voting rights in respect of such Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be exercisable.
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
Section 17.  .
Unissued or Reacquired Shares
 
Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Company shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series (provided that any such cancelled shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of a series other than Convertible Preferred Stock).
 
Section 18.  .
No Sinking Fund
 
Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
 
Section 19.  .
Reservation of Common Stock
 
(a)  .  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares of Common Stock acquired by the Company, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding.  For purposes of this Section 19(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.
Sufficient Shares
 
(b)  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Company (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
Use of Acquired Shares
 
27
 
(c)  .  All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock or upon the payment of dividends shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).
Free and Clear Delivery
 
(d)  .  Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Company shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock or upon the payment of dividends, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.
Compliance with Law
 
(e)  .  The Company hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Company will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock or upon the payment of dividends; provided, however, that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system require the Company to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Company covenants to list the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.
Listing
 
Section 20.  .
Transfer Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and Paying Agent
 
The duly appointed Transfer Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and paying agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be BNY Mellon Shareowner Services.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Company and the Transfer Agent; provided that the Company shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal.  Upon any such removal or appointment, the Company shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders.
 
Section 21.  .
Replacement Certificates
 
(a)  .  If physical certificates are issued, the Company shall replace any mutilated certificate at the Holders expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Transfer Agent.  The Company shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the Holders expense upon delivery to the Company and the Transfer Agent of satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Transfer Agent and the Company.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen and Lost Certificates
 
(b)  .  If physical certificates are issued, the Company shall not be required to issue certificates representing shares of Convertible Preferred Stock on or after the Conversion Date applicable to such shares.  In place of the delivery of a replacement certificate following the applicable Conversion Date, the Transfer Agent, upon delivery of the
Certificates Following Conversion
 
28
 
evidence and indemnity described in clause (a) above, shall deliver the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock formerly evidenced by the certificate.
 
Section 22.  .
Taxes
 
(a)  .  The Company shall pay any and all stock transfer, documentary, stamp and similar taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities.  The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, shares of Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any Person other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the Person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
Transfer Taxes
 
(b)  .  All payments and distributions (or deemed distributions) on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock (and on the shares of Common Stock received upon their conversion) shall be subject to withholding and backup withholding of tax to the extent required by law, subject to applicable exemptions, and amounts withheld, if any, shall be treated as received by Holders.
Withholding
 
Section 23.  .
Notices
 
All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Certificate of Designations) with postage prepaid, addressed:  (i) if to the Company, to its office at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, MI  48674 (Attention:  Treasurer) (ii) if to any Holder, to such Holder at the address of such Holder as listed in the stock record books of the Company (which may include the records of the Transfer Agent) or (iii) to such other address as the Company or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
 
29
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations has been executed on behalf of the Company by its Corporate Vice President and Treasurer this 25th day of March, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS.  NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.  THIS INSTRUMENT IS ISSUED PURSUANT TO AND IS ALSO SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF AN INVESTMENT AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF OCTOBER 27, 2008, BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE INVESTOR REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER.  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT.  ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID.
SECURITIES ACT
 
IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE COMPANY AND THE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT SUCH CERTIFICATES, OPINIONS OF COUNSEL AND OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REASONABLY REQUESTED TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that [  ] (the Holder) is the registered owner of [  ] fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Companys designated Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, with a par value of $1.00 per share and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the Convertible Preferred Stock).  The shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are transferable on the books and records of the Registrar, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender
 
A-1
 
of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer.  The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Convertible Preferred Stock represented hereby are and shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Designations dated __________, 2009 as the same may be amended from time to time (the Certificate of Designations).  Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning given them in the Certificate of Designations.  The Company will provide a copy of the Certificate of Designations to a Holder without charge upon written request to the Company at its principal place of business.
 
Reference is hereby made to select provisions of the Convertible Preferred Stock set forth on the reverse hereof, and to the Certificate of Designations, which select provisions and the Certificate of Designations shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Certificate of Designations and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.
 
Unless the Registrar has properly countersigned, these shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Certificate of Designations or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
 
 
A-2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this certificate has been executed on behalf of the Company by its _______________________ and its __________________ this ___ day of_________, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-3
 
 
These are shares of Convertible Preferred Stock referred to in the within-mentioned Certificate of Designations.
 
Dated: __________, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-4
 
 
Dividends on each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be payable at the rate provided in the Certificate of Designations.
 
The shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be convertible in the manner and accordance with the terms set forth in the Certificate of Designations.
 
The Company shall furnish without charge to each holder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class or series of share capital issued by the Company and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock evidenced hereby to:
 
(Insert assignees social security or taxpayer identification number, if any)
 
 
(Insert address and zip code of assignee)
 
and irrevocably appoints:
 
 
as agent to transfer the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock evidenced hereby on the books of the Transfer Agent.  The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
Date:
 
Signature:
 
 
 
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Certificate)
 
 
(Signature must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution that is a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Transfer Agent, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP) or such other signature guarantee program as may be
 
A-5
 
determined by the Transfer Agent in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-6

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that:
 
1.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the Certificate of Incorporation) fixes the total number of shares of all classes of capital stock that the Company shall have the authority to issue at one billion five hundred million (1,500,000,000) shares of common stock, par value $2.50 per share, and two hundred fifty million (250,000,000) shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
 
2.  The Certificate of Incorporation expressly grants to the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board of Directors) authority to provide for the issuance of the shares of preferred stock in series, and to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
 
3.  Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors, by action duly taken on March 27, 2009, adopted resolutions (i) authorizing the issuance and sale of up to 2,500,000 shares of the Companys preferred stock, (ii) establishing the number of shares to be included in this series of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, (iii) approving this final form of the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (including Exhibit A attached hereto) and authorizing the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors to approve such changes, subject to certain exceptions, as the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors may approve to the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, and (iv) fixing the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of this Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as follows:
 
Section 1.  .
Designation
 
The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the Perpetual Preferred Stock).  Each share of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Perpetual Preferred Stock.  Perpetual Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock, if any, and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any.
 
Section 2.  .
Number of Shares
 
The number of designated shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be 2,500,000.  That number from time to time may be decreased (but not below the number of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized.  The Company shall not have the authority to issue fractional shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock.
 
 
Section 3.  .  As used herein with respect to Perpetual Preferred Stock:
Definitions
 
Additional Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Affiliate of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person.  For the purposes of this definition, control when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms controlling and controlled have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
Board of Directors has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
 
Business Day means any weekday that is not a legal holiday in New York, New York and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to be closed.
 
Cash Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Change of Control means the occurrence of one of the following:
 
(i)         a person or group within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate beneficial owner, as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding common equity of the Company; or
 
(ii)        consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Company or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any Person other than one of the Companys subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that beneficially owned (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Company immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction;,, that a Change of Control will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or depositary receipts in respect of common stock that are (or upon issuance will be) traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area.
provided
however
 
Change of Control Redemption has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
 
Closing Price of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price, of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date.  If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained by the Company for this purpose.  For the purposes of determining the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the trading day preceding, on or following the occurrence of an event, (i) that trading day shall be deemed to commence immediately after the regular scheduled closing time of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time and (ii) that trading day shall end at the next regular scheduled closing time, or if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time (for the avoidance of doubt, and as an example, if the Closing Price is to be determined as of the last trading day preceding a specified event and the closing time of trading on a particular day is 4:00 p.m. and the specified event occurs at 5:00 p.m. on that day, the Closing Price would be determined by reference to such 4:00 p.m. closing price).
 
2
 
Common Stock means the common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share, or any other shares of the capital stock of the Company into which such shares of common stock shall be reclassified or changed.
 
Convertible Preferred Stock means the Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and the of the Company.
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C,
Dividend Payment Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividend Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
  
Dividend Rate shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Dividend Record Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Equivalent Preference Securities means, in the event of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or another entity in which the Company is not the surviving or resulting parent entity, preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, as the case may be, having such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, taken as a whole, that are not less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, of the Perpetual Preferred Stock immediately prior to such merger or consolidation, taken as a whole.
Exchange Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Holder means the Person in whose name the shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Company, Transfer Agent, Registrar and paying agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
 
Issue Date means the date of initial issuance of the Perpetual Preferred Stock.
 
Junior Stock means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Company, other than Parity Stock, now existing or hereafter authorized not expressly ranking senior to the Perpetual Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Liquidation Preference per share of Perpetual Preferred Stock on any date of determination means the Original Purchase Price, as the same may have been increased up to the date of determination in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof.
Market Disruption Event means any of the following events:
 
(i)         any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading of the Common Stock by any exchange or quotation system on which the Closing Price is determined pursuant to the definition of the term Closing Price (the Relevant Exchange) during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange as to securities generally, or otherwise relating to the Common Stock or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or
 
(ii)         any event that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Company in its reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange.
 
Nonpayment has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b)(i).
 
3
 
Original Purchase Price means $1,000.00 per share of Perpetual Preferred Stock.
 
Parity Stock means the Convertible Preferred Stock and any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized that expressly ranks equally with the Perpetual Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
 
Past Due Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Perpetual Preferred Stock shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.
Person means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
 
PIK Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Preferred Stock Director has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b)(i).
 
Record Date means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Perpetual Preferred Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Perpetual Preferred Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Perpetual Preferred Stock entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
 
Relevant Exchange has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term Market Disruption Event.
 
Restricted Securities has the meaning set forth in Rule 144(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Senior Stock means any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized which expressly ranks senior to the Perpetual Preferred Stock and has preference or priority over the Perpetual Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
 
Trading Day means a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred a Market Disruption Event.
 
Trust has the meaning set forth in Section 7(g).
VWAP per share of Common Stock on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg (or, if Bloomberg ceases to publish such price, any successor service reasonably chosen by the Company) page DOW.N<Equity> VAP (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant Trading Day until the close of trading on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained for this purpose by the Company).
 
Section 4.  .
Dividends
 
(a).  Holders shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, but only out of assets legally available therefor, (i) cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (defined below) at an annual rate per share equal to 7% of the Liquidation Preference, which may only be paid in cash (the Cash Dividends), plus (ii) additional cumulative dividends with respect to each Dividend Period at an annual rate per share equal to 8% of the Liquidation Preference, which may be paid in cash or, if not so paid, will be added to the Liquidation Preference (the PIK Dividends, and together with the Cash Dividends, the Dividends) (each such applicable rate, a Dividend Rate).  Dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, commencing on the first such day occurring after a full calendar quarter has elapsed since the Issue Date;,, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any Dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which Dividends are payable, a Dividend Payment Date).  The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date (or, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, from and including the date of issuance of the Perpetual Preferred Stock) to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a Dividend Period.  Dividends on each share of Perpetual Preferred Stock will accrue daily and be cumulative from
Rate
provided
however
 
4
 
the date such share of Perpetual Preferred Stock is issued, shall compound quarterly, and shall be payable for each full Dividend Period in equal quarterly installments;,, that for the Dividend Period from and including the Issue Date and ending on the day that is immediately prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, Dividends will be computed on the basis described in the last sentence of this Section 4(a) as being applicable to such Dividend Period.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Perpetual Preferred Stock will be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the relevant Dividend Payment Date (each, a Dividend Record Date), whether or not such day is a Business Day.  The amount of dividends payable will be computed on the basis of a 360 day year of twelve 30-day months, and for any period of less than a month, actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
provided
however
 
If the Company fails to pay a full Cash Dividend on the Perpetual Preferred Stock, then the Cash Dividends and the PIK Dividends on the Perpetual Preferred Stock shall continue to accrue and cumulate at their respective Dividend Rates and, commencing on the day after such failure to pay occurs, the Perpetual Preferred Stock shall, in addition, accrue and cumulate additional dividends (Additional Dividends) at an annual rate equal to 3.0%, compounded quarterly, on the aggregate accrued amount of any such unpaid Cash Dividends (such aggregate accrued amount of all such unpaid Cash Dividends being referred to herein as the Past Due Dividends) with the amount of such Additional Dividend accrual being added to the Liquidation Preference up to and including the date that all such Past Due Dividends shall have been declared and paid in full.
 
(b).  Except as provided in this Section 4(b), so long as any share of Perpetual Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full Dividends (including Past Due Dividends) on all outstanding shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock have been declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those Dividends has been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable Dividend Record Date, the Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, declare or pay any dividend in excess of $0.01 per share on any Junior Stock, make any distributions relating to Junior Stock, or redeem, purchase, acquire (either directly or through any subsidiary) or make a liquidation payment relating to, any Junior Stock, or make any guarantee payment with respect thereto, other than:
Priority of Dividends
 
(i)    purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants;
 
(ii)    purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy stock, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan, so long as any such contractually binding requirement was entered into at a time when there were no Past Due Dividends;
 
(iii)    as a result of an exchange or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or the securities of another company, for any other class or series of Junior Stock;
 
(iv)    the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; or
(v)    the payment of any dividends in respect of Junior Stock where the dividend is in the form of the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid.
 
For so long as any share of Perpetual Preferred Stock remains outstanding, if Dividends are not declared and paid in full upon the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock with the same dividend payment date or with a dividend payment date during a Dividend Period, all dividends declared upon shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock and any such Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that all Past Due Dividends as of the end of the then-current Dividend Period per share of Perpetual Preferred Stock and all accrued and unpaid dividends as of the end of the applicable dividend period per share of any Parity Stock (including, in the case of any Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued and unpaid dividends) bear to each other.
 
Subject to the foregoing, dividends payable in cash, stock or otherwise, as may be determined by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock and Parity Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and Holders will not be entitled to participate in those dividends.
 
5
 
Section 5.  .
Liquidation Rights
 
(a).  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, Holders shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Company may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any Senior Stock or Parity Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Companys creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in an amount per share equal to the Liquidation Preference.  Holders shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
Liquidation
 
(b).  If the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay in full the aggregate liquidating distributions required to be paid pursuant to Section 5(a) to all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the Holders and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which they would otherwise be entitled.
Partial Payment
 
(c).  If the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock are entitled pursuant to Section 5(a) have been paid, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
 
(d).  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Company into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Company be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
 
Section 6.  .
No Conversion or Exchange Rights
 
The Holders of shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock will not have any rights to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or series of stock or obligations of the Company.
 
Section 7.  .
Redemption
 
(a)
 
.  On or at any time after March 31, 2069, each Holder of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall have the right to require the Company to redeem all or a portion of such Holders Perpetual Preferred Stock, for cash or for shares of Common Stock, or any combination thereof, at the Companys discretion, at a redemption price per share equal to the sum of the Original Purchase Price plus all accrued but unpaid Dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares being redeemed through the date of redemption.  If, pursuant to this Section 7(a), the Company elects to redeem all or a portion of a Holders Perpetual Preferred Stock for shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be valued for such purpose at the average VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately prior to the relevant Record Date.
Redemption at Holders Option
(b)
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall have the right, beginning on the effective date of the Change of Control and ending on the date that is 45 days after the later of (x) the effective date of the Change of Control and (y) receipt of notice of the Change of Control from the Company as provided in this Section 7(b), to, at its option, require the Company or its successor to redeem all or a portion of such Holders Perpetual Preferred Stock (a Change of Control Redemption) for an amount in cash per share equal to the sum of (i) 101% of the Original Purchase Price plus (ii) all accrued but unpaid Dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock being redeemed pursuant to such Change of Control Redemption through the date of redemption.  On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the Company anticipates consummating the Change of Control (or, if later, or in the case of a Change of Control referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, promptly after the Company discovers that the Change of Control will occur or has occurred), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Company, by overnight courier to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Company (which may include the records of the Transfer Agent).  Such notice shall contain the date on which the Change of Control is anticipated to be effected or, in the case of a Change of Control referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, the date on which the Schedule TO or other schedule, form or report referred to in such clause was filed.
Redemption on a Change of Control
(c)
 
Any Holder of Perpetual Preferred Stock may exercise the Holders redemption right under Section 7(a) or 7(b) by delivering to the Company at its principal office a written notice stating the Holders intention to exercise the
 
6
 
holders redemption right and the number of the Holders shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed.  The Company shall be obligated to redeem the total number of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock specified in the Holders redemption notice on or before the earlier of (i) the 30th Business Day following its receipt of the Holders notice of a redemption pursuant to Section 7(a) or (ii) the date of the Change of Control if notice is given at least 10 days prior to such Change of Control.
(d)
 
. On or at any time after March 31, 2014, the Company shall have the right to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock at a redemption price per share of Perpetual Preferred Stock for an amount in cash per share equal to the sum of the Original Purchase Price plus all accrued and unpaid Dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock being redeemed through the date of redemption; that no partial redemption of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock by the Company pursuant to this Section 7(d) shall be permitted unless (i) the aggregate amount of the Original Purchase Price in respect of all shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed equals or exceeds $50,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate amount of the Original Purchase Price in respect of all outstanding shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock after giving effect to the redemption equals or exceeds $50,000,000.  It is understood and agreed that the Company shall covenant for the benefit of certain of its debt holders that it will not redeem shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 7(d) unless it has received proceeds from the sale of securities that have equal or greater equity-like characteristics during the 180 days prior to the date of redemption.
Redemption at Companys Option
provided
(e)
 
. In the event the Company shall redeem shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 7(d), notice of such redemption shall be given to each Holder of Perpetual Preferred Stock at least 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the proposed redemption date.  Each notice shall state:
Notice of Companys Redemption
(i)
 
the redemption date;
(ii)
 
the number of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares of a Holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed;
(iii)
 
the redemption price;
(iv)
 
the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and
(v)
 
that Dividends on the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
(f)
 
.  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock outstanding at the time of any redemption election by the Company pursuant to Section 7(d), the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata from the Holders in proportion to the number of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock held by such Holders, by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors or any other duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable.
Partial Redemption
(g)
 
.  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Company, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the Holders of the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Company with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors, the Preferred Stock Committee or any other duly authorized committee thereof (the ) in trust for the pro rata benefit of the Holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share of Perpetual Preferred Stock so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall cease to accrue on such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the Holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Trust at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Company shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Trust any interest accrued on such funds, and the Holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Company, and in the event of such repayment to the Company, the Holders of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Company for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Company, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
Effectiveness of Redemption
Trust
 
7
 
(h)
 
. After the receipt by the Company of a redemption request pursuant to Section 7(a) or 7(b), unless and until the full redemption price for the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock to be redeemed on any redemption date has been paid to the Holders requesting such redemption, (i) no dividends shall be paid or declared or set aside for payment or other distribution upon any Junior Stock, and (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be redeemed, retired, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any payment made to or available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such shares) by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Restrictions on Other Payments
(i)
 
. Any shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock redeemed in accordance with this Certificate of Designations, or otherwise reacquired by the Company, will resume the status of authorized and unissued preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
Status of Reacquired Shares
 
(h).  If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Change of Control Redemption option pursuant to Section 7(b), the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock held by it will remain outstanding until otherwise subsequently redeemed.  In the event of a Change of Control in which the Companys Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for other securities or property (including cash), the successor or acquiring corporation shall expressly assume the due and punctual observation and performance of each and every covenant and condition contained in this Certificate of Designation to be performed and observed by the Company and all the obligations and liabilities hereunder, with such modifications and adjustments as equitable and appropriate in order to place the Holders in the equivalent economic position as prior to such Change of Control.
Unredeemed Shares Remain Outstanding
  
Section 8.  .
Voting Rights
 
(a).  The Holders shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in Sections 8(b) and 8(c) or as required by Delaware law.
General
 
(b).
Special Voting Right
 
(i)         .  If and whenever dividends on the Perpetual Preferred Stock have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not) (a Nonpayment), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the Holders (together with holders of any class or series of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to class or series (and with voting rights allocated pro rata based on the liquidation preference of each such class or series), to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Company to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the Holders and the holders of any such other class or series shall not be entitled to elect such directors to the extent such election would cause the Company to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Companys securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors, and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors.  Each such director so elected is referred to as a Preferred Stock Director.
Voting Right
 
(ii)    .  The election of the Preferred Stock Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the Holders and any other class or series of stock of the Company having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 8(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Company may, and upon the written request of the Holders of at least 20% of the Perpetual Preferred Stock or the holders of at least 20% of such other series (addressed to the secretary at the Companys principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the Holders and any such other class or series of preferred stock for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 8(b)(iii).  The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
Election
 
(iii)    .  Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Companys by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders.  If the secretary of the Company does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any Holder may (at the expense of the Company) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 8(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Company.  The Preferred Stock Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 8(b)(iv).  In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred
Notice of Special Meeting
 
8
 
Stock Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the Holders (together with holders of any other class of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
 
(iv)    .  Whenever the Company has declared and paid or declared and set aside for payment in full all Past Due Dividends, then the right of the Holders to elect the Preferred Stock Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Stock Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 8(b).
Termination; Removal
 
(c).  So long as any shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the Holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose at which the Holders shall vote separately as a single class, will be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:
Senior Issuances; Adverse Changes
 
(i)    any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Perpetual Preferred Stock) or the Companys by-laws, including by way of merger, that would alter or change the voting powers, dividend rights, preferences or special rights of the Perpetual Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely (,, that to the extent that any such amendment, alteration or repeal relates solely to an increase in the amount of the authorized or issued preferred stock (other than Perpetual Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into preferred stock (other than Perpetual Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock (other than Perpetual Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into Parity Stock (other than Perpetual Preferred Stock) or Junior Stock, then such amendment, alteration or repeal will not be deemed to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the Perpetual Preferred Stock, and Holders will have no right to vote on such an increase, creation or issuance);
provided
however
 
(ii)    any amendment or alteration of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Perpetual Preferred Stock), including by way of merger, to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of Perpetual Preferred Stock or Senior Stock; or
 
(iii)    any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Perpetual Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting parent entity, are converted into or exchanged for Equivalent Preference Securities, and (y) if such shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock do not remain outstanding, immediately prior to or concurrent with the consummation thereof, all Past Due Dividends on the Perpetual Preferred Stock to the date of consummation, whether or not declared, have been paid in full.
The Company shall not provide consideration to any Holder in exchange for such Holders vote or consent pursuant to this Section 8(c) without offering, on identical terms, to provide all Holders who then hold Perpetual Preferred Stock with the same consideration in exchange for votes or consents per share of Perpetual Preferred Stock.
 
Section 9.  .
Preemption
 
The Holders shall not have any preemptive rights.
 
Section 10.  .
Creation of Junior Stock or Parity Stock
 
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, without the vote of the Holders, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, other than Perpetual Preferred Stock.
 
9
 
For so long as any Perpetual Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Company will not issue any preferred stock (other than the Convertible Preferred Stock) with terms (exclusive of any conversion feature) more favorable to the holders thereof, in the aggregate, than the terms of the Perpetual Preferred Stock without amending this Certificate of Designations to concurrently modify the terms of the Perpetual Preferred Stock to give the Holders the benefit of such more favorable terms.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any series of preferred stock containing (i) a dividend in excess of the Dividend Rate, (ii) more favorable make-whole payments or other redemption premiums or (iii) additional covenants not contained in this Certificate of Designations shall be considered more favorable.
 
Section 11.  .
Repurchase
 
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, and subject to the provisions of Section 7, the Company may purchase and sell Perpetual Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof may determine;,, that the Company shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent;,,, that in the event that the Company beneficially owns any Perpetual Preferred Stock, voting rights in respect of such Perpetual Preferred Stock shall not be exercisable.
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
Section 12.  .
Unissued or Reacquired Shares
 
Shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and redeemed, or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Company shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series (provided that any such cancelled shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of a series other than Perpetual Preferred Stock).
 
Section 13.  .
No Sinking Fund
 
Shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
 
Section 14.  .
Transfer Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and Paying Agent
 
The duly appointed Transfer Agent, Registrar and paying agent for the Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be BNY Mellon Shareowner Services.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Company and the Transfer Agent; provided that the Company shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal.  Upon any such removal or appointment, the Company shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders.
 
Section 15.  .
Replacement Certificates
 
(a).  If physical certificates are issued, the Company shall replace any mutilated certificate at the Holders expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Transfer Agent.  The Company shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the Holders expense upon delivery to the Company and the Transfer Agent of satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Transfer Agent and the Company.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen and Lost Certificates
 
(b).  In the event that a redemption is effected with respect to shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock representing less than all the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock held by a Holder, upon redemption the Company shall execute and the Transfer Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to such Holder, at the expense of the Company, a certificate evidencing the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock held by the Holder as to which a redemption was not effected.
Partial Redemption
 
Section 16.  .
Taxes
 
(a).  The Company shall pay any and all stock transfer, documentary, stamp and similar taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Perpetual Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities.  The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock, shares of Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any Person other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the Person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Company the
Transfer Taxes
 
10
 
amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
 
(b) .  All payments and distributions (or deemed distributions) on the shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be subject to withholding and backup withholding of tax to the extent required by law, subject to applicable exemptions, and amounts withheld, if any, shall be treated as received by Holders.
Withholding
 
Section 17.  .
Notices
 
All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Certificate of Designations) with postage prepaid, addressed:  (i) if to the Company, to its office at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, MI  48674 (Attention:  Treasurer) (ii) if to any Holder, to such Holder at the address of such Holder as listed in the stock record books of the Company (which may include the records of the Transfer Agent) or (iii) to such other address as the Company or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
11
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations has been executed on behalf of the Company by its Corporate Vice President and Treasurer this 31st day of March, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS.  NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
SECURITIES ACT
 
IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE COMPANY AND THE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT SUCH CERTIFICATES, OPINIONS OF COUNSEL AND OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REASONABLY REQUESTED TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
 
 
 
Certificate Number: [__]
 
Number of Shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock: [_____]
 
 
 
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that [_____________] (the Holder) is the registered owner of [_____] duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Companys designated Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, with a par value of $1.00 per share  (the Perpetual Preferred Stock).  The shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock are transferable on the books and records of the Registrar, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer.  The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Perpetual Preferred Stock represented hereby are and shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Designations dated ___________, 2009 as the same may be amended from time to time (the Certificate of Designations).  Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning given them in the Certificate of Designations.  The Company will provide a copy of the Certificate of Designations to a Holder without charge upon written request to the Company at its principal place of business.
 
1
 
Reference is hereby made to select provisions of the Perpetual Preferred Stock set forth on the reverse hereof, and to the Certificate of Designations, which select provisions and the Certificate of Designations shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Upon receipt of this Certificate, the Holder is bound by the Certificate of Designations and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.
 
Unless the Registrar has properly countersigned, these shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Certificate of Designations or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Company by its _______________________ and its __________________ this _____ day of________, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
REGISTRARS COUNTERSIGNATURE
 
These are shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock referred to in the within-mentioned Certificate of Designations.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
Dividends on each share of Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be payable at the rate provided in the Certificate of Designations.
 
The Company shall furnish without charge to each Holder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class or series of share capital issued by the Company and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers _____________ shares of the Perpetual Preferred Stock evidenced hereby to:
 
(Insert assignees social security or taxpayer identification number, if any)
 
 
(Insert address and zip code of assignee)
 
and irrevocably appoints:
 
 
 
as agent to transfer the said shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock on the books of the Transfer Agent.  The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
Date:
 
Signature:
 
 
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Certificate)
 
 
(Signature must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution that is a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Transfer Agent, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP) or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Transfer Agent in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
 
5

 
Exhibit 3.3
 
CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES C
The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that:
 
1.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the Certificate of Incorporation) fixes the total number of shares of all classes of capital stock that the Company shall have the authority to issue at one billion five hundred million (1,500,000,000) shares of common stock, par value $2.50 per share, and two hundred fifty million (250,000,000) shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
 
2.  The Certificate of Incorporation expressly grants to the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board of Directors) authority to provide for the issuance of the shares of preferred stock in series, and to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
 
3.  Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors, by action duly taken on March 27, 2009, adopted resolutions (i) authorizing the issuance and sale of up to 500,000 shares of the Companys preferred stock, (ii) establishing the number of shares to be included in this series of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, (iii) approving this final form of the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (including Exhibit A attached hereto) and authorizing the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors to approve such changes, subject to certain exceptions, as the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors may approve to the Certificate of Designations of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, and (iv) fixing the
 
 
designations, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of this Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as follows:
 
Section 1.  
Designation.
 
The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (the Convertible Preferred Stock).  Each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Convertible Preferred Stock.  Convertible Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock, if any, and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any.
 
Section 2.  
Number of Shares.
 
The number of designated shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 500,000.  That number from time to time may be decreased (but not below the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized.  The Company shall not have the authority to issue fractional shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Section 3.  
Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Convertible Preferred Stock:
 
Additional Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Affiliate of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person.  For the purposes of this definition, control when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms controlling and controlled have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
Aggregate Dividend Amount has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(iv).
 
Appraisal Procedure means a procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Company and one by the Holder (or if there is more than one Holder, a majority in interest of Holders), shall mutually agree upon the determinations then the subject of appraisal.  Each party shall deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 15 days after the Appraisal Procedure is invoked.  If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are unable to agree upon the amount in question, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10 days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers or, if such two first appraisers fail to agree upon the appointment of a third appraiser, such appointment shall be made by the American Arbitration Association, or any organization successor thereto, from a panel of arbitrators having experience in appraisal of the subject matter to be appraised.  The decision of the third appraiser so appointed and chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of such third appraiser.  If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount by which the other determination is disparate from the middle determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations
 
2
 
shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Holder; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be binding upon the Company and the Holder.  The costs of conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne equally by the Company and the Holder.
Automatic Conversion Date has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
 
Automatic Conversion Rate means for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, the sum of the VWAP Conversion Fractions for the Trading Days included in the first full Conversion Pricing Period that commences after the Effective Shelf Registration Date.
 
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement means an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act covering the Convertible Preferred Stock and the Common Stock into which the Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible.
 
Board of Directors has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
 
Business Day means any weekday that is not a legal holiday in New York, New York and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to be closed.
 
Cash Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Certificate of Incorporation has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
 
Change of Control means the occurrence of one of the following:
 
(i) a person or group within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate beneficial owner, as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding common equity of the Company; or
 
(ii) consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Company or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any Person other than one of the Companys subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that beneficially owned (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Company immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction; provided, however, that a Change of Control will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or depositary receipts in respect of common stock that are (or upon issuance will be) traded on a U.S. national securities
 
3
 
exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area.
 
 Closing Price of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price, of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date.  If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may include the Nasdaq Stock Market) on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained by the Company for this purpose.  For the purposes of determining the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the trading day preceding, on or following the occurrence of an event, (i) that trading day shall be deemed to commence immediately after the regular scheduled closing time of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time and (ii) that trading day shall end at the next regular scheduled closing time, or if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time (for the avoidance of doubt, and as an example, if the Closing Price is to be determined as of the last trading day preceding a specified event and the closing time of trading on a particular day is 4:00 p.m. and the specified event occurs at 5:00 p.m. on that day, the Closing Price would be determined by reference to such 4:00 p.m. closing price).
 
 Common Stock means the common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share, or any other shares of the capital stock of the Company into which such shares of common stock shall be reclassified or changed.
 
Company has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
 
Constituent Person has the meaning set forth in Section 10(a).
 
Conversion Agent means the Transfer Agent acting in its capacity as conversion agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Conversion Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a).
 
Conversion Pricing Period means, as of a date, a period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending as of such date; provided, however, that no such period shall begin prior to the Initial Closing Date.  
 
Conversion Rate means the Floating Conversion Rate, the Fixed Conversion Rate or the Automatic Conversion Rate, as applicable.
 
Convertible Preferred Stock has the meaning set forth in Section 1.
 
4
 
Current Market Price per share of Common Stock as of a Record Date for any issuance, distribution or other action means the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day before the Ex-Date with respect to such issuance, distribution, or other action, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 9.
 
Dividend Payment Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividend Period shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividend Rate shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividend Record Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Dividend Threshold Amount has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(iv).
 
Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Effective Shelf Registration Date shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a).
 
Equivalent Preference Securities means, in the event of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or another entity in which the Company is not the surviving or resulting parent entity, preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, as the case may be, having such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, taken as a whole, that are not less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions, of the Convertible Preferred Stock immediately prior to such merger or consolidation, taken as a whole.
 
Exchange Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Exchange Property has the meaning set forth in Section 10(a).
 
Ex-Date when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the shares of Common Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
 
Expiration Date has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(v).
 
Expiration Time has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(v).
 
Fair Market Value means, with respect to any security or other property, the fair market value of such security or other property as determined by the Board of Directors, acting in good faith.  If the Holders of a majority of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock at the time outstanding object in writing to the Board of Directors calculation of fair market value within 10 days of receipt of written notice thereof and such Holders and the Company are unable to agree on fair market value during the 10-day period following the delivery of such Holders objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine Fair Market
 
5
 
Value by delivering written notification thereof not later than the 30th day after delivery of such Holders objection.
 
Fixed Conversion Price means a dollar amount equal to 110% of the lowest VWAP for Common Stock for a full Trading Day during the period between the Initial Closing Date and June 1, 2009.
 
Fixed Conversion Rate means for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Original Purchase Price plus all accrued and unpaid Dividends, including any Past due Dividends, by (ii) the Fixed Conversion Price.
 
Fixed Conversion Rate Period means the period during which a Fixed Conversion Rate shall be in effect by virtue of the Effective Shelf Registration Date not having occurred prior to June 1, 2009.
 
Fixed Conversion Value means, as of a date, for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, a dollar amount equal to the product of the Fixed Conversion Rate and the sum obtained by adding the Adjusted VWAPs for each of the Trading Days included in the Conversion Pricing Period ending at the close of business on the Trading Day immediately prior to such date, where Adjusted VWAP for a Trading Day equals 10% of  the VWAP for such Trading Day.
 
Floating Conversion Rate means, as of a date, for each share of Convertible Preferred Stock, the sum of the VWAP Conversion Fractions for the Trading Days included in the Conversion Pricing Period that ends on the Trading Day immediately prior to such date.
 
Holder means the Person in whose name the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Company, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
 
Initial Closing Date shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Investment Agreement.
 
Investment Agreement means the Investment Agreement, dated as of March [], 2009, among The Dow Chemical Company and the Investors named therein.
 
Investor has the meaning set forth in the Investment Agreement.
 
Issue Date means the date of initial issuance of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Junior Stock means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Company, other than Parity Stock, now existing or hereafter authorized not expressly ranking senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
 
Liquidation Preference on any date means an amount equal to the sum of (i) (a) prior to the Fixed Conversion Rate Period the Original Purchase Price or (b) during the Fixed Conversion
6
 
Rate Period the greater of (1) the Original Purchase Price and (2) the Fixed Conversion Value, plus (ii) all accrued and unpaid Dividends, including any Past Due Dividends, up to the date of determination.
 
Market Disruption Event means any of the following events:
 
(i)  any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading of the Common Stock by any exchange or quotation system on which the Closing Price is determined pursuant to the definition of the term Closing Price (the Relevant Exchange) during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange as to securities generally, or otherwise relating to the Common Stock or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange;
 
(ii)  any event that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Company in its reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock, any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or
 
(iii)  any event that would give rise to an adjustment pursuant to Section 9 regardless of whether the Fixed Conversion Rate is then in effect.
 
Nonpayment has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i).
 
Officers Certificate means a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer, any Executive Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller or the Treasurer.
 
Original Purchase Price means $1,000.00 per share of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
Parity Stock means the Perpetual Preferred Stock, the Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of the Company, the Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B of the Company and any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized that expressly ranks equally with the Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
 
Past Due Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
 
Perpetual Preferred Stock means the Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of the Company.
 
7
 
Person means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
 
PIK Dividends has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a)
 
Preferred Stock Director has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i).
 
Purchased Shares has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(v).
 
Record Date means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Convertible Preferred Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
 
Registrar means the Transfer Agent acting in its capacity as registrar for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
 
Relevant Exchange has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term Market Disruption Event.
 
Reorganization Event has the meaning set forth in Section 10(a).
 
Restricted Securities has the meaning set forth in Rule 144(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Senior Stock means any class or series of stock of the Company hereafter authorized which expressly ranks senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock and has preference or priority over the Convertible Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
 
Spin-Off has the meaning set forth in Section 9(a)(iii)(b).
 
Trading Day means a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred a Market Disruption Event.
 
Transfer Agent means BNY Mellon Shareholder Services acting as Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
 
Trust has the meaning set forth in Section 6(h).
 
VWAP per share of Common Stock on any Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg (or, if Bloomberg ceases to publish such price, any successor service reasonably chosen by the Company) page DOW.N<Equity> VAP (or its equivalent successor if such page is not
 
8
 
available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant Trading Day until the close of trading on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Company) retained for this purpose by the Company).
 
VWAP Conversion Fraction means, with respect to a Trading Day, the quotient of (i) the Liquidation Preference and (ii) the product of (A) 10, (B) 0.95 and (C) the VWAP for such Trading Day.
 
Section 4.  
Dividends.
 
(a) .  Holders shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, but only out of assets legally available therefor, (i) cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (defined below) at an annual rate per share equal to 7% of the Liquidation Preference, which may only be paid in cash (the Cash Dividends), plus (ii) additional cumulative dividends with respect to each Dividend Period at an annual rate per share equal to 8% of the Liquidation Preference, which may be paid in cash or, if not so paid, will be added to the Liquidation Preference (the PIK Dividends and, together with the Cash Dividends, the Dividends); provided, however, that for any period beginning on or after June 1, 2009, the Dividends shall consist entirely of cumulative cash dividends, which shall also be referred to as Cash Dividends, with respect to each Dividend Period during such Fixed Conversion Rate Period at an annual rate per share equal to 12% of the Liquidation Preference, which may only be paid in cash (each such applicable rate, a Dividend Rate).  Dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, commencing on the first such day occurring after a full calendar quarter has elapsed since the Issue Date;,, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any Dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which Dividends are payable, a Dividend Payment Date).  The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date (or, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, from and including the date of issuance of the Convertible Preferred Stock) to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a Dividend Period.  Dividends on each share of Convertible Preferred Stock will accrue daily and be cumulative from the date such share of Convertible Preferred Stock is issued, shall compound quarterly, and shall be payable for each full Dividend Period in equal quarterly installments;,, that for the Dividend Period from and including the Issue Date and ending on the day that is immediately prior to the first Dividend Payment Date, Dividends will be computed on the basis described in the last sentence of this Section 4(a) as being applicable to such Dividend Period.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock will be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the relevant Dividend Payment Date (each, a Dividend Record Date), whether or not such day is a Business Day.  The amount of dividends payable will be computed on the basis of a 360 day year of twelve 30-day months, and for any period of less than a month, actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Rate
provided
however
provided
however
 
If the Company fails to pay a full Cash Dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock, then the Cash Dividends and the PIK Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock shall continue to
 
9
 
accrue and cumulate at their respective Dividend Rates and, commencing on the day after such failure to pay occurs, the Convertible Preferred Stock shall, in addition, accrue and cumulate additional dividends (Additional Dividends) at an annual rate equal to 3.0%, compounded quarterly, on the aggregate accrued amount of any such unpaid Dividends (such aggregate accrued amount of all such unpaid Cash Dividends being referred to herein as the Past Due Dividends) with the amount of such Additional Dividend accrual being added to the Liquidation Preference up to and including the date that all such Past Due Dividends shall have been declared and paid in full.
 
(b) .  Except as provided in this Section 4(b), so long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full Dividends (including Past Due Dividends) on all outstanding shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock have been declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those Dividends has been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable Record Date, the Company will not, and will cause its subsidiaries not to, declare or pay any dividend in excess of $0.01 per share on any Junior Stock, make any distributions relating to Junior Stock, or redeem, purchase, acquire (either directly or through any subsidiary) or make a liquidation payment relating to, any Junior Stock, or make any guarantee payment with respect thereto, other than:
Priority of Dividends
 
(i)  purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants;
 
(ii)  purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy stock, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan, so long as any such contractually binding requirement was entered into at a time when there were no Past Due Dividends;
 
(iii)  as a result of an exchange or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or the securities of another company, for any other class or series of Junior Stock;
 
(iv)  the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; or
 
(v)  the payment of any dividends in respect of Junior Stock where the dividend is in the form of the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid.
 
For so long as any share of Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, if Dividends are not declared and paid in full upon the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock with the same dividend payment date or with a dividend payment date during a Dividend Period, all dividends declared upon shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that all Past Due Dividends as of the end of the then-current Dividend Period per share of Convertible Preferred Stock and all accrued and unpaid dividends as of the end of the applicable dividend period per share of any Parity Stock (including, in the case of any such Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued and unpaid dividends) bear to each other.
 
10
 
Subject to the foregoing, dividends payable in cash, stock or otherwise, as may be determined by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock and Parity Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and Holders will not be entitled to participate in those dividends.
 
(c) .  If the Conversion Date for any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is prior to the close of business on a Dividend Record Date, the Holder of such shares will not be entitled to any such dividend.  If the Conversion Date for any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is after the close of business on a Dividend Record Date but prior to the corresponding Dividend Payment Date, the Holder of such shares shall be entitled to receive such dividend, notwithstanding the conversion of such shares prior to the Dividend Payment Date.  However, such shares, upon surrender for conversion, must be accompanied by the dividend on such shares.
Conversion Following a Record Date
 
.
Section 5.  
Liquidation Rights
 
(a) .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, Holders shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Company may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any Senior Stock or Parity Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Companys creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in an amount per share equal to the Liquidation Preference.  Holders shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
Liquidation
 
(b) .  If the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay in full the aggregate liquidating distributions required to be paid pursuant to Section 5(a) to all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the Holders and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which they would otherwise be entitled.
Partial Payment
 
(c) .  If the respective aggregate liquidating distributions to which all Holders and all holders of any Parity Stock are entitled pursuant to Section 5(a) have been paid, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
 
(d) .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Company into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Company be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
 
11
 
Section 6.  
Redemption.
 
(a) .  On or at any time after March 31, 2069, each Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have the right to require the Company to redeem all or a portion of such Holders Convertible Preferred Stock, for cash or for shares of Common Stock, or any combination thereof, at the Companys discretion, at a redemption price per share equal to (i) if the Effective Shelf Registration Date was prior to June 1, 2009, the sum of the Original Purchase Price plus all accrued but unpaid dividends on the shares being redeemed and (ii) if the Company has not filed an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement or the Effective Shelf Registration Date is June 1, 2009 or a later date, the greater of (x) the sum of the Original Purchase Price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares being redeemed through the date of redemption and (y) the Fixed Conversion Value.  If, pursuant to this Section 6(a), the Company elects to redeem all or a portion of a Holders Convertible Preferred Stock for shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be valued for such purpose at the average VWAP per share of Common Stock over each of the 5 consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately prior to the relevant Record Date.
Redemption at Holders Option
 
(b) .  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock shall have the right, beginning on the effective date of the Change of Control and ending on the date that is 45 days after the later of (x) the effective date of the Change of Control and (y) the receipt of notice of the Change of Control from the Company as provided in this Section 6(b) to, at its option, require the Company or its successor to redeem all or a portion of such Holders Convertible Preferred Stock (a Change of Control Redemption) for an amount in cash per share equal to the sum of (i) 101% of the Original Purchase Price plus (ii) all accrued but unpaid Dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares being redeemed pursuant to such Change of Control Redemption through the date of redemption.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to a Change of Control Redemption shall expire on May 31, 2009.  On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the Company anticipates consummating the Change of Control (or, if later, or in the case of a Change of Control referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, promptly after the Company discovers that the Change of Control will occur or has occurred), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Company, by overnight courier to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Company (which may include the records of the Transfer Agent).  Such notice shall contain the date on which the Change of Control is anticipated to be effected or, in the case of a Change of Control referred to in clause (i) of the definition thereof, the date on which the Schedule TO or other schedule, form or report referred to in such clause was filed.
Redemption on a Change of Control
 
(c) Any Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock may exercise the Holders redemption right under Section 6(a) or 6(b) by delivering to the Company at its principal office a written notice stating the Holders intention to exercise the holders redemption right and the number of the Holders shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed.  The Company shall be obligated to redeem the total number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock specified in the Holders redemption notice on or before the earlier of (i) the 30th Business Day following its receipt of the Holders notice of a redemption pursuant to Section 6(a) or (ii) the date of the Change of Control if notice is given at least 10 days prior to such Change of Control.  
 
(d) . On or at any time after March 31, 2014, the Company shall have the right to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of
Redemption at Companys Option
 
12
 
Convertible Preferred Stock at a redemption price per share of Convertible Preferred Stock for an amount in cash per share equal to (i) if the Effective Shelf Registration Date is prior to June 1, 2009, the sum of the Original Purchase Price plus all accrued and unpaid Dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock being redeemed through the date of redemption and (ii) if the Company has not filed an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement or the Effective Shelf Registration Date is June 1, 2009 or a later date, the greater of (x) the Original Purchase Price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares being redeemed and (y) the Fixed Conversion Value; , , that no partial redemption of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock by the Company pursuant to this Section 6(d) shall be permitted unless the aggregate amount of the Original Purchase Price in respect of all shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed equals or exceeds $50,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate amount of the Original Purchase Price in respect of all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock after giving effect to the redemption equals or exceeds $50,000,000.  It is understood and agreed that the Company shall covenant for the benefit of certain of its debt holders that it will not redeem shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 6(d) unless it has received proceeds from the sale of securities that have equal or greater equity-like characteristics during the 180 days prior to the date of redemption.
provided
however
 
(e) .  In the event that in connection with a conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon such conversion exceeds the amount that the Company is permitted to issue under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards without a vote of the holders of the Common Stock, then any Convertible Preferred Stock that remains outstanding following such conversion as contemplated by Section 8(f) shall be subject to redemption at the Companys option for cash (i) within 180 days of the relevant conversion date at a price per share equal to the price provided in clause (x) of Section 6(d) above using the proceeds of equity securities of the Company that have equal or greater equity characteristics to the Convertible Preferred Stock and (ii) thereafter, at a price per share equal to the greater of (a) the sum of the Original Purchase Price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the shares being redeemed and (b) the Fixed Conversion Value using the proceeds of equity securities of the Company that have equal or greater equity characteristics to the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Redemption Following Certain Conversion Events
 
(f) . In the event the Company shall redeem shares of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 6(d), notice of such redemption shall be given to each Holder of Convertible Preferred Stock at least 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the proposed redemption date.  Each notice shall state:
Notice of Companys Redemption
 
(i)  the redemption date;
 
(ii)  the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares of a Holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed;
 
(iii)  the redemption price, provided, however, that if the Company has not filed an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement or the Effective Shelf Registration Date occurs on June 1, 2009 or a later date, then the notice shall state the Original Purchase Price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends (including any Past Due Dividends) on the
 
13
 
shares being redeemed, calculated pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii);
 
(iv)  the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and
 
(v)  that Dividends on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
 
(g) .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding at the time of any redemption election by the Company pursuant to Section 6(d), the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata from the Holders in proportion to the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by such Holders, by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors or any other duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable.
Partial Redemption
 
(h) .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Company, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the Holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Company with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors, the Preferred Stock Committee or any other duly authorized committee thereof (the Trust) in trust for the pro rata benefit of the Holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue on such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the Holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Trust at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Company shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Trust any interest accrued on such funds, and the Holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Company, and in the event of such repayment to the Company, the Holders of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Company for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Company, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
(i) . After the receipt by the Company of a redemption request pursuant to Section 6(a) or 6(b), unless and until the full redemption price for the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed on any redemption date has been paid to the Holders requesting such redemption, (i) no dividends shall be paid or declared or set aside for payment or other distribution upon any Junior Stock, and (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be redeemed, retired, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any payment made to or available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such shares) by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Restrictions on Other Payments
 
(j) . Any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed in
Status of Reacquired Shares
 
14
 
accordance with this Certificate of Designations, or otherwise reacquired by the Company, will resume the status of authorized and unissued preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
 
(k) .  If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Change of Control Redemption option pursuant to Section 6(b), the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by it will remain outstanding until otherwise subsequently redeemed.  In the event of a Change of Control in which the Companys Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for other securities or property (including cash), the successor or acquiring corporation shall expressly assume the due and punctual observation and performance of each and every covenant and condition contained in this Certificate of Designation to be performed and observed by the Company and all the obligations and liabilities hereunder, with such modifications and adjustments as equitable and appropriate in order to place the Holders in the equivalent economic position as prior to such Change of Control.
Unredeemed Shares Remain Outstanding
 
Section 7.  
Right of the Holders to Convert.
 
(a) Each Holder shall have the right, at such Holders option, to convert all or any portion of such Holders Convertible Preferred Stock (i) at any time following ten full Trading Days after the Initial Closing Date and prior to June 1, 2009, at the Floating Conversion Rate per share of Convertible Preferred Stock (subject to the conversion procedures, and with the effect, set forth in Section 8), plus cash in lieu of fractional shares as set out in Section 9(i) and (ii) in the event that the date on which the Automatic Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective (the Effective Shelf Registration Date) occurs on or after June 1, 2009, at the Fixed Conversion Rate per share (subject to the conversion procedures, and with the effect, set forth in Section 8), plus cash in lieu of fractional shares as set out in Section 9(i).
 
(b)           So long as the Effective Shelf Registration Date occurs prior to June 1, 2009, all of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall automatically convert at the Automatic Conversion Rate, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares as set out in Section 9(i), on the date (the Automatic Conversion Date) immediately following expiration of the first full Conversion Pricing Period commencing on the Effective Shelf Registration Date (the Automatic Conversion Pricing Period), provided that a prospectus under the Investment Agreement shall have been available during the entire Automatic Conversion Pricing Period.  Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Automatic Conversion Date, dividends shall no longer accrue or be declared on any such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding.
 
Section 8.  
Conversion Procedures and Effect of Conversion.
 
(a) .  A Holder must do each of the following in order to convert shares of Convertible Preferred Stock:
Conversion Procedure
 
(i)  complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent;
 
(ii)  deliver a certificate or certificates representing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted to the Conversion Agent;
 
15
 
(iii)  if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;
 
(iv)  if required, pay any stock transfer, documentary, stamp or similar taxes not payable by the Company pursuant to Section 19; and
 
(v)  if required, surrender the dividend payable in respect of such shares pursuant to the last sentence of Section 4(c).
 
The date on which a Holder complies with the procedures in this Section 8(a) with regard to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is referred to as the Conversion Date applicable to such shares.  The Conversion Agent shall, on a Holders behalf, convert the Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by such Holder described above.
 
(b).  Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Conversion Date applicable to any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, dividends shall no longer accrue or be declared on any such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding.  Holders who convert shares of Convertible Preferred Stock will not be entitled to, nor will the Fixed Conversion Rate or Floating Conversion Rate be adjusted for, any Past Due Dividends in respect of such shares.
Effect of Conversion
 
(c).  The Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property issuable upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock on a Conversion Date shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock and/or securities as of the close of business on such Conversion Date.  In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Company shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of the Company.
Record Holder of Underlying Securities as of Conversion Date
 
(d).  Except pursuant to Section 9, no adjustment to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock being converted on a Conversion Date or to the shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion thereof shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of the Common Stock as of any date prior to the close of business
No Rights to Common Stock Prior to Conversion
on such Conversion Date.  Prior to the close of business on such Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion of such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such Common Stock or other securities (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion, and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
(e).  Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock converted in accordance with this Certificate of Designations, or otherwise reacquired by the
Status of Converted or Reacquired Shares
 
16
 
 Company, will resume the status of authorized and unissued preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
(f) In the event that in connection with a conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon such conversion exceeds the amount that the Company is permitted to issue under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards without a vote of the holders of the Common Stock, then such number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be converted as may be satisfied through the issuance of the number of shares of Common Stock that complies with such listing standards and any unconverted shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be subject to the same terms and conditions hereunder as apply during the Fixed Conversion Rate Period (except as otherwise provided in Section 6(e) above).
Section 9.  
Anti-Dilution Adjustments.
 
(a) Adjustments.  The Fixed Conversion Rate will be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances:
 
(i)  the issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock, or a subdivision or combination of Common Stock, in which event the Fixed Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
CR = CR x (OS / OS)
1
0
1
0
 
where,
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (i) shall be effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for the event giving rise to the adjustment.  If any such event is declared but does not occur, the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors announces that such event shall not occur, to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such event had not been declared.
 
(ii)  the dividend, distribution or other issuance to all holders of Common Stock of
 
17
 
(A) rights (other than pursuant to a stockholders rights plan) or warrants entitling them to purchase shares of Common Stock or (B) securities convertible into Common Stock, in either case for a period expiring 45 days or less from the date of issuance thereof, at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price as of the Record Date for such issuance, in which event the Fixed Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
CR = CR x (OS + X) / (OS + Y)
1
0
0
0
 
where,
 
For purposes of this clause (ii), in determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the holders to purchase the Common Stock at less than the Current Market Price as of the Record Date, there shall be taken into account any consideration the Company receives for such rights or warrants (or convertible securities), and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be the Fair Market Value thereof.
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (ii) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such issuance.  In the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to issue such rights or warrants, to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such issuance had not been declared.  To the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.
 
18
 
(iii)  (a) the dividend or other distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Company (other than Common Stock) or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, rights (other than pursuant to a stockholders rights plan) or warrants issued by it, but excluding any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (i) or (ii) above, clause (iv) below, or Section 10), in which event the Fixed Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
CR = CR x SP / (SP  FMV)
1
0
0
0
 
where,
 
  
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iii)(a) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution.
 
(b) However, if the transaction that would otherwise give rise to an adjustment pursuant to clause (iii)(a) above is one pursuant to which the payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a Spin-Off) that on the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off are traded (or are traded on a when-issued basis) on any securities exchange, market or automated quotation system, then the Fixed Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
CR
1
= CR
0
x (FMV
0
+ MP
0
) / MP
0
 
where,
 
19
 
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iii)(b) shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the last Trading Day of the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off; provided, that the Fixed Conversion Rate applicable to any conversion occurring during such five Trading Days shall be determined by applying the formula set forth above except that all references to five consecutive Trading Days shall be replaced with such lesser number of consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the Ex-Date for such Spin-Off and ending on and including the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of such conversion.
 
In the event that any dividend or distribution described in clauses (iii)(a) and (b) above is not so paid or made, the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or make such distribution, to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
(iv)  the Company makes a distribution per share of Common Stock as of any date (the Relevant Date) of cash to all holders of Common Stock, and the sum (the Aggregate Dividend Amount) of such distribution and all prior distributions of cash per share of Common Stock paid since the Issue Date exceeds the sum (the  Dividend Threshold Amount ) of the hypothetical cash distributions that would have been paid on a share of Common Stock had such distributions been paid quarterly (commencing with the first cash dividend paid since the Issue Date) and increased at a compound annual growth rate of 5.0%, compounded quarterly, from $0.42 per share as of July 30, 2008, through and including the Relevant Date, in which event, the Fixed Conversion Rate will
 
20
 
be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
CR = CR x SP / ( SP  C+ C)
1
0
0
0
1
2
 
where,
 
The Dividend Threshold Amount and the Aggregate Dividend Amount (but not the compound annual growth rate of 5.0% compounded quarterly) shall be adjusted on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Fixed Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to this Section 9;, that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount or the Aggregate Dividend Amount for any adjustment made to the Fixed Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (iv).
  provided
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (iv) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Ex-Date for such distribution.  In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such distribution, to the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared.
 
(v)  the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last day on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the Expiration Date), in which event the Fixed Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
CR = CR x [(FMV + (SP x OS)] / (SP x OS)
1
0
1
1
1
0
 
21
 
where,
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (v) shall become effective immediately prior to the open of business on the Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date.  In the event that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is obligated to purchase Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Fixed Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made.
 
(b) .  All adjustments to the Fixed Conversion Rate shall be calculated by the Company to the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share).  No adjustment to the Fixed Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent; provided, however, that any such adjustment that is not required to be made will be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment, and provided further, that any such adjustment of less than one percent that has not been made will be made upon any Conversion Date.
Calculation of Adjustments
 
(c)  
When No Adjustment Required.
 
(i)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9, the applicable Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the
 
22
 
foregoing, or for the repurchase of Common Stock.
 
(ii)  No adjustment of the Conversion Rate need be made as a result of the issuance of, the distribution of separate certificates representing, the exercise or redemption of, or the termination or invalidation of, rights pursuant to any stockholder rights plans;,, that to the extent that the Company has a stockholder rights plan in effect on a Conversion Date, the Holder shall receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the rights under such rights plan, unless, prior to any such Conversion Date, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company made a distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Company or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, rights or warrants issued by it) as described in Section 9(a)(iii), subject to (x) readjustment for only that portion of such rights or warrants which expire or terminate or (y) readjustment in the event of the redemption of such rights or warrants, except that any such readjustment shall be calculated net of the aggregate value of the consideration payable in connection with any such redemption.
  provided
  however
 
(iii)  No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made:
 
 
(A)  upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan in which purchases are made at market prices on the date or dates of purchase, without discount, and whether or not the Company bears the ordinary costs of administration and operation of the plan, including brokerage commissions;
 
(B)  upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase such shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries;
 
(C)  upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of March 1, 2009; or
 
(D)  for a change in the par value of the Common Stock.
 
(iv)  No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 9(a), if the Holder, as a result of holding the Convertible Preferred Stock and without having to convert the Convertible Preferred Stock, receives the cash, securities, assets, property or other benefits in such transaction on the same basis and at the same time as if such Holder held the full number of shares of Common Stock into which its shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may then be converted.
 
(v)  No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made to the extent that such
 
23
 
adjustment would result in the Conversion Price being less than the par value of the Common Stock.
 
(d)  .  After an adjustment to the Fixed Conversion Rate under this Section 9, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Section 9 shall cause an adjustment to such Fixed Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
Successive Adjustments
 
(e)  .  For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that would trigger an adjustment to the Fixed Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 9 under more than one subsection hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in multiple adjustments hereunder; provided, however, that if more than one subsection of this Section 9 is applicable to a single event, the subsection shall be applied that produces the largest adjustment.
Multiple Adjustments
 
(f)  .  The Company may, but shall not be required to, make such increases in the Fixed Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by this Section 9, as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to any holders of shares of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock or issuance of rights or warrants to purchase or subscribe for stock or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes or for any other reason.
Other Adjustments
 
(g)  .  Whenever a Fixed Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided under Section 9, the Company shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Company is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware) or the date the Company makes an adjustment pursuant to Section 9(f):
Notice of Adjustments
 
(i)  compute the adjusted applicable Fixed Conversion Rate in accordance with this Section 9 and prepare and transmit to the Conversion Agent an Officers Certificate setting forth the applicable Fixed Conversion Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and
 
(ii)    provide a written notice to the Holders of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Fixed Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Fixed Conversion Rate.
 
(h)  .  The Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist that may require any adjustment of the applicable Conversion Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same.  The Conversion Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officers Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 9(g) and any adjustment contained therein and the Conversion Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate.  The Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any
Conversion Agent
 
24
 
securities or property, that may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any Convertible Preferred Stock; and the Conversion Agent makes no representation with respect thereto.  The Conversion Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Section 9.
 
(i) .  No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued to holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock upon conversion.  In lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable, holders will be entitled to receive an amount in cash equal to the fraction of a share of Common Stock, multiplied by the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Conversion Date.  In order to determine whether the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued to a Holder upon the conversion of such Holders shares of Convertible Preferred Stock will include a fractional share (in lieu of which cash would be paid hereunder), such determination shall be based on the aggregate number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock of such Holder that are being converted on any single Conversion Date.
Fractional Shares
 
 
Section 10.  
Adjustment for Reorganization Events.
 
 
(a) Reorganization Events.  In the event of:
 
(i)   any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another person pursuant to which the Common Stock is changed into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Company or another person;
 
(ii)  any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another person of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock is converted into cash, securities or other property; or
 
(iii)  any statutory exchange of securities of the Company with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition) or reclassification of the Common Stock into other securities;
 
(each of which is referred to as a Reorganization Event) each share of the Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event will, without the consent of the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock, become convertible into the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property (the Exchange Property) receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest on such Exchange Property, and without any right to dividends or distribution on such Exchange Property which have a record date that is prior to the applicable Conversion Date) per share of Common Stock by a holder of Common Stock that is not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a  Constituent Person ), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-Affiliates;  that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other
provided
 
25
 
property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by a Person other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof, then for the purpose of this Section 10(a), the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event will be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).  On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on such Conversion Date of such securities, cash or other property received per share of Common Stock, as determined in accordance with this Section 10.
(b) .  In the event that the holders of the shares of Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of the shares of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).  The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms hereof shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date.
Exchange Property Election
 
(c) .  The above provisions of this Section 10 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 9 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Company (or any other issuer) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
Successive Reorganization Events
 
(d) .  The Company (or any successor) shall, 20 days prior to the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property.  Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 10.
Reorganization Event Notice
 
Section 11.  
Voting Rights.
 
(a) .  The Holders shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in Sections 11(b) and 11(c) or as required by Delaware law.
General
 
(b)
Special Voting Right.
 
(i)  .  If and whenever dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not) (a Nonpayment), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the Holders (together with holders of any class or series of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to class or series (and with voting rights allocated pro rata based on the liquidation preference of each such class or series), to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Company to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such
Voting Right
 
26
 
directorships), provided that the Holders and the holders of any such other class or series shall not be entitled to elect such directors to the extent such election would cause the Company to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Companys securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors, and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors.  Each such director so elected is referred to as a Preferred Stock Director.
 
(ii)  .  The election of the Preferred Stock Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the Holders and any other class or series of stock of the Company having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 11(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Company may, and upon the written request of the Holders of at least 20% of the Convertible Preferred Stock or the holders of at least 20% of such other series (addressed to the secretary at the Companys principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the Holders and any such other class or series of preferred stock for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 11(b)(iii) below.  The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
Election
 
(iii)  .  Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Companys by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders.  If the secretary of the Company does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any Holder may (at the expense of the Company) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 11(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Company.  The Preferred Stock Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 11(b)(iv).  In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the Holders (together with holders of any other class of the Companys authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
Notice of Special Meeting
 
(iv)  .  Whenever the Company has declared and paid or declared and set aside for payment in full all Past Due Dividends, then the right of the Holders to elect the Preferred Stock Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Stock Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the Holders of a majority of the
Termination; Removal
 
27
 
outstanding shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Companys authorized and preferred stock having equivalent voting rights and entitled to vote thereon) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 11(b).
 
(c) .  So long as any shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the Holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose at which the Holders shall vote separately as a single class, will be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:
Senior Issuances; Adverse Changes
 
(i)  any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Convertible Preferred Stock) or the Companys by-laws, including by way of merger, that would alter or change the voting powers, dividend rights, preferences or special rights of the Convertible Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely (,, that to the extent that any such amendment, alteration or repeal relates solely to an increase in the amount of the authorized or issued preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock) or any securities convertible into Parity Stock (other than Convertible Preferred Stock) or Junior Stock, then such amendment, alteration or repeal will not be deemed to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the Convertible Preferred Stock, and Holders will have no right to vote on such an increase, creation or issuance);
provided
however
 
(ii)  any amendment or alteration of the Companys certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations creating the Convertible Preferred Stock), including by way of merger, to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of Convertible Preferred Stock or Senior Stock; or
 
(iii)  any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Convertible Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting parent entity, are converted into or exchanged for Equivalent Preference Securities, and (y) if such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock do not remain outstanding, immediately prior to or concurrent with the consummation thereof, all Past Due Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock to the date of consummation, whether or not declared, have been paid in full.
 
The Company shall not provide consideration to any Holder in exchange for such Holders vote or consent pursuant to this Section 11(c) without offering, on identical terms, to provide all Holders who then hold Convertible Preferred Stock with the same consideration in exchange for votes or consents per share of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
28
 
Section 12.  
Preemption.
 
The Holders shall not have any preemptive rights.
 
Section 13.  
Creation of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.
 
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, without the vote of the Holders, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, other than Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
For so long as any Convertible Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Company will not issue any preferred stock (other than the Convertible Preferred Stock) with terms (exclusive of any conversion feature) more favorable to the holders thereof, in the aggregate, than the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock without amending this Certificate of Designations to concurrently modify the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock to give the Holders the benefit of such more favorable terms.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any series of preferred stock containing (i) a dividend in excess of the Dividend Rate, (ii) more favorable make-whole payments or other redemption premiums or (iii) additional covenants not contained in this Certificate of Designations shall be considered more favorable.
 
Section 14.  
Repurchase.
 
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, and subject to the provisions of Section 6, the Company may purchase and sell Convertible Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof may determine;,, that the Company shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent;,,, that in the event that the Company beneficially owns any Convertible Preferred Stock, voting rights in respect of such Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be exercisable; ,, that the Company shall not purchase any Convertible Preferred Stock from any Investor (as defined in the Investment Agreement) without offering, upon identical terms, to purchase shares of Convertible Preferred Stock from all Investors who then hold Convertible Preferred Stock, and in the event that the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock sought to be sold in response to such offer exceeds the amount the Company is willing to purchase, then the amount purchased by the Company from each such Investor shall be pro rated based on the number of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock sought to be sold by such Investors.
provided
however
  provided
further
however
provided, further
however
 
Section 15.  
Unissued or Reacquired Shares.
 
Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed, or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Company shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series (provided that any such cancelled shares of Convertible Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of a series other than Convertible Preferred Stock).
 
29
 
Section 16.  
No Sinking Fund.
 
Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
 
Section 17.  
Transfer Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
The duly appointed Transfer Agent, Registrar and paying agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock shall be BNY Mellon Shareowner Services.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, remove the Transfer Agent in accordance with the agreement between the Company and the Transfer Agent; provided that the Company shall appoint a successor transfer agent who shall accept such appointment prior to the effectiveness of such removal.  Upon any such removal or appointment, the Company shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders.
 
Section 18.  
Replacement Certificates.
 
(a) .  If physical certificates are issued, the Company shall replace any mutilated certificate at the Holders expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Transfer Agent.  The Company shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the Holders expense upon delivery to the Company and the Transfer Agent of satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Transfer Agent and the Company.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen and Lost Certificates
 
(b) .  In the event that a redemption is effected with respect to shares of Convertible Preferred Stock representing less than all the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by a Holder, upon redemption the Company shall execute and the Transfer Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to such Holder, at the expense of the Company, a certificate evidencing the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock held by the Holder as to which a redemption was not effected.
Partial Redemption
 
Section 19.  
Taxes.
 
(a) .  The Company shall pay any and all stock transfer, documentary, stamp and similar taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities.  The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, shares of Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any Person other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the Person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
Transfer Taxes
 
(b) .  All payments and distributions (or deemed distributions) on the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be subject to withholding and backup withholding of tax to the extent required by law, subject to applicable exemptions, and amounts withheld, if any, shall
Withholding
 
30
 
be treated as received by Holders.
 
Section 20.  
Notices.
 
All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Certificate of Designations) with postage prepaid, addressed:  (i) if to the Company, to its office at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, MI  48674 (Attention:  Treasurer) (ii) if to any Holder, to such Holder at the address of such Holder as listed in the stock record books of the Company (which may include the records of the Transfer Agent) or (iii) to such other address as the Company or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
 
31
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations has been executed on behalf of the Company by its Corporate Vice President and Treasurer this 31st day of March, 2009.
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE ), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS.  NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
SECURITIES ACT
 
IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE COMPANY AND THE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT SUCH CERTIFICATES, OPINIONS OF COUNSEL AND OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REASONABLY REQUESTED TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
 
Certificate Number: [__]
Number of Shares of Convertible Preferred Stock: [______]
 
 
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the Company), hereby certifies that [______________] (the Holder) are the registered owner of [_______] duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Companys designated Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, with a par value of $1.00 per share (the Convertible Preferred Stock).  The shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are transferable on the books and records of the Registrar, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer.  The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Convertible Preferred Stock represented hereby are and shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Designations dated _________, 2009 as the same may be amended from time to time (the Certificate of Designations).  Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning given them in the Certificate of Designations.  The Company will provide a copy of the Certificate of Designations to a Holder without charge upon written request to the Company at its principal place of business.
 
1
 
Reference is hereby made to select provisions of the Convertible Preferred Stock set forth on the reverse hereof, and to the Certificate of Designations, which select provisions and the Certificate of Designations shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Upon receipt of this Certificate, the Holders are bound by the Certificate of Designations and are entitled to the benefits thereunder.
 
Unless the Registrar has properly countersigned, these shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Certificate of Designations or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Company by its _______________________ and its __________________ this _____ day of________, 2009.
 
 
 
3
 
These are shares of Convertible Preferred Stock referred to in the within-mentioned Certificate of Designations.
 
Dated:
 
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, as Registrar
 
 
4
 
 
Dividends on each share of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be payable at the rate provided in the Certificate of Designations.
 
The shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall be convertible in the manner and accordance with the terms set forth in the Certificate of Designations.
 
The Company shall furnish without charge to each Holder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class or series of share capital issued by the Company and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers _____________ shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock evidenced hereby to:
 
(Insert assignees social security or taxpayer identification number, if any)
 
(Insert address and zip code of assignee)
 
and irrevocably appoints:
 
 
as agent to transfer the said shares of Convertible Preferred Stock on the books of the Transfer Agent.  The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
Date:
 
Signature:
 
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Certificate)
 
 
(Signature must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution that is a bank, stockbroker, savings and loan association or credit union meeting the requirements of the Transfer Agent, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP) or such other signature guarantee program as may be
 
5
 
determined by the Transfer Agent in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) today announced that it has completed its acquisition of Rohm and Haas (NYSE: ROH).  The acquisition is a major step in Dows strategy of growing its performance products and specialty portfolio to deliver more consistent earnings growth.  Combining the two organizations best-in-class technologies, broad geographic reach and strong market channels will create a $14.0 billion diversified business portfolio, which will be called Dows Advanced Materials division.  The division is intended to achieve $3.0 billion in additional value growth opportunities, as well as annual cost synergies of $1.3 billion.
Midland, Mich.  April 1, 2009 
The closing of this transaction strongly positions Dow for the future by transforming our business portfolio, said Dow Chairman and CEO, Andrew N. Liveris.  This is an exciting day for all of Dows stakeholders, and we are committed to delivering on a clear and measurable plan designed to meet the needs of our investors, employees, customers and suppliers, even in this current challenging macroeconomic environment.  Our first critical task is to ensure a seamless integration of Rohm and Haas that maximizes the synergies and opportunities offered by this transaction.
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Dow Completes Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
 
Page 2 of 3
Rohm and Haas is the key element in Dows new Advanced Materials division.  Pierre Brondeau has been named president and CEO of this division, which includes: Coatings, Building and Construction, Specialty Materials, Adhesives and Functional Polymers, and Electronic Materials.
Transaction Delivers on Announcement Day Promises
We expect the creation of Dows new Advanced Materials division will:
Continued Progress on De-leveraging
Dow has decided to exercise its option to have the Haas Family Trusts make an additional $500 million investment in Dow equity.  This is consistent with Dows disciplined plan to retire the bridge loan for the financing of the Rohm and Haas transaction by the end of 2009.  This will be accomplished through the sale of assets, issuance of equity and debt, and the previously announced reduction in the Companys dividend to preserve cash.
Regulatory Approvals
On January 23, 2009, Dow entered into a consent order with the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that permitted the completion of the acquisition, provided that certain actions
 
 
 
Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) or an affiliated company of Dow
TM
 
 
Dow Completes Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
 
Page 3 of 3
to address potential anticompetitive effects are implemented within 240 days of the deal closing.  Specifically, under the terms of that agreement, Dow is required to divest the following businesses:
The consent order also includes an Order to Hold Separate which requires Dow to maintain the competitiveness of these businesses pending their divestiture and to ensure that confidential information is not transferred between these businesses and the other businesses of Dow.
Dow has already initiated procedures to comply with the FTC consent order and has been actively seeking buyers for the impacted businesses.  The acquisition previously received regulatory clearance from the European Commission on January 8, 2009.
Effective today, Rohm and Haas common stock will cease trading.
 
About Dow
With annual sales of $58 billion and 46,000 employees worldwide, Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company delivers a broad range of products and services to customers in around 160 countries, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. References to Dow or the Company mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted.
 
Forward-Looking Information
The forward-looking statements contained in this release involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices, and other factors as discussed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental, and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) or an affiliated company of Dow
TM
 
 

 
, dated as of April 1, 2009 (this ), by The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
Replacement Capital Covenant
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
 
 
A.      On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing 2,500,000 shares of its Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, having an aggregate liquidation preference of $2,500,000,000 (the ).
Preferred Stock
 
B.      This Replacement Capital Covenant is the covenant for the benefit of certain debt holders of the Corporation referred to in the certificate of designations, dated April 1, 2009, relating to the Preferred Stock (the ).
Certificate of Designations
 
C.      The Corporation, in entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below, is doing so with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
 
D.      The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
 
               Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.
Section 1.
Definitions.
 
             .  The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not redeem or repurchase all or any portion of the Preferred Stock on or before the Termination Date except to the extent that either:
Section 2.
Limitations on Redemption or Purchase of Preferred Stock
 
(a)        the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts raised through the issuance of Replacement Capital Securities:  (i) the Applicable Percentage of (A) the aggregate amount of the net cash proceeds the Corporation and its Subsidiaries have received from the sale of Common Stock and Rights to acquire Common Stock, and (B) the Market Value of any Common Stock that has been issued (x) as consideration for property or assets in an arms-length transaction or (y) in connection with the conversion into or exchange for Common Stock of any convertible or exchangeable securities, other than, in the case of (y), securities for which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries has received equity credit from any NRSRO; (ii) the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries from the sale of Replacement Capital Securities (other than the securities set forth in clause (i) above); in each case, to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period); that the limitations in this Section 2 shall not restrict the repayment, redemption or other acquisition of any shares of Preferred Stock that have been previously purchased in accordance with this Replacement Capital Covenant; or
plus
provided
 
(b)        the shares of Preferred Stock are exchanged for consideration that includes an aggregate principal amount or liquidation preference (or, in the case of Common Stock, Market Value) of
 
 
Replacement Capital Securities equal to 100% prior to the Stepdown Date and 50% on or after the Stepdown Date (or, in the case of Common Stock, 50% prior to the Stepdown Date and 25% on or after the Stepdown Date) of the aggregate Original Purchase Price (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) of Preferred Stock that is exchanged.
 
               (a)  The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.
Section 3.
Covered Debt.
 
(b)           On, or during the 30-day period immediately preceding, any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:
 
(i)           the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
 
(ii)          if only one series of the Corporations then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
 
(iii)         if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify a specific series that has the latest stated final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
 
(iv)         the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and
 
(v)          in connection with such identification of a new series of the Covered Debt, notice shall be given as provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.
 
(c)           Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant, if a series of Eligible Senior Debt of the Corporation has become the Covered Debt in accordance with Section 3(b), on the date on which the Corporation issues a new series of Eligible Subordinated Debt, then immediately upon such issuance such series shall become the Covered Debt and the applicable series of Eligible Senior Debt shall cease to be the Covered Debt.
 
(d)           .  In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant, or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, (A) notice shall be given to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture or other instrument under which such Initial Covered Debt was issued, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) the Corporation shall file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in each Form 10-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission; (iii) if a series of the Corporations long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt, notice of such occurrence shall be given within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued, and the
Notice
 
2
 
Corporation shall report such change in a Form 8-K, which must include or incorporate by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporations next Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, as applicable; (iv) upon succession of any new entity as the Corporation hereunder as a result of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets or other business combination of the Corporation as it existed prior thereto, notice of such occurrence shall be given within 30 days to the holders of the Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and the Corporation shall report such change in a Form 8-K, which must include or incorporate by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporations next Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, as applicable; (v) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation will (A) post on its website (or any other similar electronic platform generally available to the public) the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) above; and (B) cause a notice of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be posted on the Bloomberg screen for the Initial Covered Debt or any successor Bloomberg screen or, if none, a similar third-party vendors screen the Corporation reasonably believes is appropriate (each an ) and cause a hyperlink of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each series of Covered Debt, in each case to the extent permitted by Bloomberg or such similar third-party vendor, as the case may be; and (vi) promptly upon the request of any Holder of Covered Debt, such Holder will be provided with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
Investor Screen
 
             .  (a)  The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the ) to occur of (i) April 1, 2039 or if earlier, the date on which the Preferred Stock are otherwise paid, redeemed or purchased in full (in compliance with the terms of Section 2 of this Replacement Capital Covenant), (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of at least a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (iii) the date on which the Corporation has no outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term) and (iv) the date on which a Change of Control (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) occurs.  From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect with respect to the Holders or otherwise.
Section 4.
Termination and Amendment
Termination Date
 
(b)           This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority of outstanding principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt, that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if any of the following apply (it being understood that any such amendment or supplement may fall into one or more of the following):  (i) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Common Equity Units and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities, if, in the case of this clause, after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to eliminate Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Common Equity Units and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities would result in a reduction in the Corporations earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (), or the Corporation otherwise has been advised in writing by a nationally recognized independent accounting firm that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to eliminate such securities as Replacement Capital Securities would result in a reduction of the Corporations EPS, (ii) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the ability of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries to redeem or purchase the Preferred Stock or to impose additional restrictions on, or to eliminate certain of, the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities (other than securities which are covered by clause (i) above) and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt in the manner
provided
EPS
 
3
 
provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for borrowed money was issued a written certificate to that effect, (iii) such amendment or supplement extends the date specified in Section 4(a)(i) or (iv) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the rights of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt hereunder and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt.  For the avoidance of doubt, an amendment or supplement that adds new types of Replacement Capital Securities or modifies the requirements of the Replacement Capital Securities described herein would not be adverse to the rights of the Holders of Covered Debt if, following such amendment or supplement, this Replacement Capital Covenant would satisfy the definition of Explicit Replacement Covenant.
 
(c)           For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement this Replacement Capital Covenant or the obligations of the Corporation hereunder shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.
 
             .  (a)  THIS REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 5.
Miscellaneous
 
(b)           This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Persons rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).  The Corporation agrees that, if at any time the Covered Debt is held by a trust (for example, where the Covered Debt is part of an issuance of trust preferred securities), a holder of the securities issued by such trust may enforce (including by instituting legal proceedings) this Replacement Capital Covenant directly against the Corporation as though such holder owned the Covered Debt directly, and the holders of such trust securities shall be deemed Holders of Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for so long as the indebtedness held by such trust remains Covered Debt hereunder.  Other than the Covered Debtholders as provided in the two previous sentences, no other Person shall have any rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant or be deemed a third party beneficiary of this Replacement Capital Covenant.  In particular, no holder of the Preferred Stock is a third party beneficiary of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
 
(c)           All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) or (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as may thereafter be listed as the principal executive offices of the Corporation in the then most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q of the Corporation, or as may thereafter be posted on the Corporations website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:
 
4
 
The Dow Chemical Company
2030 Dow Center
Midland, Michigan 48674
Attention:  Executive Vice President, General Counsel
            and Corporate Secretary
Facsimile:  (989) 638-9347
 
with a copy to:
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP
599 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10022-6069
 
Attention:  Joel S. Klaperman, Esq.
Facsimile:  (212) 848-7179
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by a duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the related transaction documents that require the issuer thereof to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue), in its sole discretion, one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising  (as defined in (a) below) at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which such issuer pays current Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:
Alternative Payment Mechanism
eligible proceeds
 
(a)        define  to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters or placement agents fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale, and including the fair market value of property received by the issuer or any of its subsidiaries as consideration for such APM Qualifying Securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, up to the Preferred Cap (as defined in (e) below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;
eligible proceeds
 
(b)        permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds;
 
(c)        if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (or such shorter period as may be provided for in the terms of such securities), require the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries not to redeem or purchase any securities that rank with or junior to any APM Qualifying Securities that the Corporation has issued to settle deferred Distributions in respect to that deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid (a ), other than the following (none of which shall be restricted or prohibited by a Purchase Restriction):
pari passu
Purchase Restriction
 
(i)        purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries of shares of Common Stock in connection with any employment or compensatory contract, compensation or benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants; or
 
(ii)        purchases by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy shares of Common Stock entered into prior to the beginning of the related deferral period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan;
 
(d)        limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants, either (i) during the first five years of any deferral period or (ii) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of any deferral period ( that such limitation shall not apply after a date not later than the ninth anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period), to a number of shares of Common Stock and Rights to acquire Common Stock which does not, in the aggregate, exceed 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock, in each case as of the date of the Corporations most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements at the time of such issuance (the );
provided
Common Cap
 
(e)        limit the right of the Corporation to issue APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, to an amount from the issuance of such Qualifying Preferred Stock and then-still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (including, in the case of Qualifying Preferred Stock, at any
 
7
 
point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism) equal to 25% of the initial liquidation or principal amount of the Qualifying Capital Securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the );
Preferred Cap
 
(f)        in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision; and
 
(g)        permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if the Corporation is involved in a merger, consolidation, amalgamation, statutory share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a ) where immediately after the consummation of the business combination more than 50% of the voting stock of the surviving entity of the business combination, or the entity to whom all or substantially all of the Corporations assets are conveyed, transferred or leased, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the business combination, then clauses (a), (b) and (c) above will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following the date of consummation of the business combination;
business combination
 
(and it being understood) that:
provided
 
(a)        the Alternative Payment Mechanism may at the discretion of the Corporation include a share cap limiting the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities consisting of Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, in each case to a maximum issuance cap to be set at the discretion of the Corporation (a ); that such Share Cap will be subject to the Corporations agreement to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to increase the Share Cap when reached and (i) only to the extent it can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of Common Stock or (ii) if the Corporation cannot increase the Share Cap as contemplated in the preceding clause, by requesting its Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for shareholder vote at the next occurring annual shareholders meeting to increase the number of shares of the Corporations authorized Common Stock for purposes of satisfying its obligations to pay deferred Distributions;
Share Cap
provided
 
(b)        such issuer shall not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
 
(c)        if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, such issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, such issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap, and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable; and
 
(d)        if such issuers has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by such issuers from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis up to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.
 
 means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism, any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or any Mandatory Trigger Provision, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision or for any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity):
APM Qualifying Securities
 
(a)        Common Stock;
 
(b)        Qualifying Warrants;
 
(c)        Qualifying Preferred Stock; and
 
8
 
(d)        Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
 
that if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism, any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or any Mandatory Trigger Provision include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants, such Alternative Payment Mechanism, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants.
provided
 
 means:
Applicable Percentage
 
(i)        with respect to Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 200% prior to the Stepdown Date and 400% on or after the Stepdown Date;
 
(ii)        a) with respect to Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (a) of the definition of that term, 100% prior to the Stepdown Date and 200% on or after the Stepdown Date and (b) with respect to Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (b) of the definition of that term, 100%; and
(
 
(iii)       with respect to Debt Exchangeable for Equity, 150% prior to the Stepdown Date and 300% on or after the Stepdown Date.
 
 means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities to Distributions that accumulate during (a) any deferral period, in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (b) any period in which the issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities having a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:
Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision
 
(iv)       in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities having an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and
 
(v)        in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) the amount of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts) that relate to the earliest two years of the portion of the deferral period for which Distributions have not been paid and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger Provision, that the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the remaining claim exceeds the amount set forth in subclause (x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they would have received had the claim for such excess ranked with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.
provided
pari passu
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a duly constituted committee thereof.
Board of Directors
 
 means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
 
9
 
 means, for purposes of selling APM Qualifying Securities, commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries in public offerings or private placements.  The issuer of APM Qualifying Securities shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of APM Qualifying Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
 
 means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Common Cap
 
 means a security or combination of securities that:
Common Equity Units
 
(i)        gives the holders (a) a beneficial interest in a fixed income security of the Corporation (including a debt security, a trust preferred security of a subsidiary trust or preferred stock) that has a maturity no greater than six years and (b) a beneficial interest in a stock purchase contract;
 
(ii)        includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the fixed income security is required to be remarketed to new investors within four years from the date of issuance of the security; and
 
(iii)       provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Common Stock pursuant to the stock purchase contract for a determinable number of shares or within a range established at the time of issuance of the Common Equity Units, in each case subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
 
 means any equity securities of the Corporation (including equity securities held as treasury shares and equity securities sold pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan, direct stock purchase plan or director or employee benefit plan) that have no preference in the payment of dividends or amounts payable upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (including any security that tracks the performance of, or relates to the results of, a business, unit or division of the Corporation), and any securities that have no preference in the payment of dividends or amounts payable upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and are issued in exchange therefor in connection with a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, business combination, recapitalization or other similar event.
Common Stock
 
 has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Corporation
 
 means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.
Covered Debt
 
 means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt, that a Person who has sold all its right, title and interest in Covered Debt shall cease to be a Covered Debtholder at the time of such sale if, at such time, the Corporation has not breached or repudiated, or threatened to breach or repudiate, its obligations hereunder.
Covered Debtholder
provided
 
 means Common Equity Units or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity.
Debt Exchangeable for Equity
 
 means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, ) that:
Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity
such securities
 
10
 
(a)        gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation permitting the Corporation to defer Distributions in whole or in part on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods of up to at least seven years without any remedies other than Permitted Remedies and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) (in this definition, ) and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share or shares of Qualifying Preferred Stock of the Corporation that ranks with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation (in this definition, );
pari passu
subordinated debt
pari passu
preferred stock
 
(b)        provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the holders direct or indirect obligation to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
 
(c)        includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of such securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on:  (i) the dissolution of the issuer of such securities or (ii) one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of the instrument governing such securities;
 
(d)        provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing of the subordinated debt to be used to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its remedies as a secured party with respect to its subordinated debt or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by the holders of such securities;
 
(e)        is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant that will apply to such securities and preferred stock of the Corporation, and will not include Debt Exchangeable for Equity as a Replacement Capital Security; and
 
(f)        if applicable, after the issuance of such preferred stock of the Corporation, provides the holders of such securities with a beneficial interest in such preferred stock of the Corporation.
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.
Distribution Date
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.
Distribution Period
 
 means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Distributions
 
 means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.
Eligible Debt
 
 means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuers then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuers then outstanding classes of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO ( that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment
Eligible Senior Debt
provided
 
11
 
banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.  For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuers long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
 
 means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuers then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Preferred Stock and subordinate to the issuers then outstanding series of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO ( that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.  For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuers long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
Eligible Subordinated Debt
provided
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, that the issuer has made a covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant to the effect that the issuer will redeem, defease or purchase, and any Subsidiaries of the issuer will purchase, such securities only if and to the extent that the applicable percentage of the amount raised through the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, defeasance or purchase that are as much or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, defeased or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption, defeasance or purchase date, and that the board of directors of the issuer has determined that such covenant is binding on the issuer for the benefit of one or more series of the long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the issuer (or an affiliate of the issuer, if the covenant so provides) to the same extent as this Replacement Capital Covenant is binding on the Corporation for the benefit of the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt; that the term of such Explicit Replacement Covenant shall be determined at the time of issuance of the related Replacement Capital Securities taking into account the other characteristics of such securities.
Explicit Replacement Covenant
provided
 
 means a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 8-K
 
 means an Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 10-K
 
 means a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 10-Q
 
 means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt.
Holder
 
 means the Corporations 7.375% Debentures due 2029 (CUSIP 260543 BJ1).
Initial Covered Debt
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities issued, directly or indirectly, that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such security or combination of securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer or an affiliate under the Securities Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer will redeem, purchase or defease such
Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure
 
12
 
securities only with amounts raised from securities that would be considered Replacement Capital Securities, substantially as that term is defined herein but as applied to such securities instead of to the Preferred Stock, issued within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption or purchase date.
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 3(d).
Investor Screen
 
 means cumulative preferred stock of the Corporation with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock within three years from the date of its issuance for a determinable number of shares or within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, provisions in the terms thereof or in the related transaction agreements that (a) require, or at its option in the case of perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock permit, the issuer of such security or combination of securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only in connection with the issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, within two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale at least equal the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case requires the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions; that (i) such Mandatory Trigger Provision shall limit the issuance and sale of Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants the proceeds of which may be applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision to the Common Cap, unless the Mandatory Trigger Provision requires such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock or still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap, (b) in the case of securities other than perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, prohibit the issuer from purchasing any APM Qualifying Securities, or any securities that rank with or junior to APM Qualifying Securities, prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (a) to pay such unpaid Distributions in full, (c) in the case of securities other than perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision and (d) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (or such shorter period as may be provided for in the terms of such securities), prohibit the issuer of such securities from redeeming or purchasing any of its securities ranking upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer junior to or with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred Distributions during the relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid.  For purposes of this definition of Mandatory Trigger Provision, (1) the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) any such APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing; (2) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable; and (3) if the issuer has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of any such APM Qualifying Securities and applies some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis up to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.  No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuers failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuers exercise of its right under an Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.
Mandatory Trigger Provision
provided
pari passu
pari passu
 
13
 
 means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
Market Disruption Event
 
(a)        trading in securities generally, or in the securities of the issuer (or any affiliate of the issuer that may issue securities in settlement of an Alternative Payment Mechanism) specifically, on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which such securities are then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, such securities;
 
(b)        the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) would be required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders (or the shareholders of an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue APM Qualifying Securities and the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) fails to obtain that consent or approval notwithstanding the commercially reasonable efforts of the issuer (or such affiliate) to obtain that consent or approval or a regulatory authority instructs the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) not to sell or offer for sale such securities;
 
(c)        a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(d)        a disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(e)        the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(f)        there shall have occurred such an adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(g)        an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for the offer and sale of the APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)), contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated in that offering document or necessary to make the statements in that offering document not misleading and either (A) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)), would have a material adverse effect on the business of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) or (B) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the ability of the issuer or any affiliate to consummate that transaction, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (vii) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (vii) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
provided
 
(h)        the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (a)) reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above, that the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the
 
14
 
issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (a)) is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
provided
 
definition of  or similar words as used in any securities or combination of securities that constitute Replacement Capital Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the issuer thereof at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the issuer would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the issuers preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.
The
Market Disruption Event
 
 means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by The New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on The New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the Market Value will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Corporation for this purpose.
Market Value
 
 with respect to any redemption or purchase of Preferred Stock, means the period (i) beginning on the date that is 180 days prior to the date of delivery of notice of such redemption (such date of delivery, the ) or the date of such purchase and (ii) ending on such notice date or the date of such purchase.  Measurement Periods cannot run concurrently.
Measurement Period
notice date
 
 means debt securities of the Corporation that rank upon the Corporations liquidation, dissolution or winding-up junior to all of the Corporations other long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (other than the Corporations long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks with such securities) and with the claims of the Corporations trade creditors.
Most Junior Subordinated Debt
pari passu
pari passu
 
 means, with respect to any securities, that the issuer thereof may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.  Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism shall also be deemed to be Non-Cumulative for all purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant except in the definition of Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock and Qualifying Preferred Stock
Non-Cumulative
.
 
 means preferred or preference stock having Distributions which may be skipped by the issuer thereof for any number of Distribution Periods without any remedy arising under the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of such issuers failure to pay Distributions, other than Permitted Remedies.
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock
 
 means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such term is used under the Securities Exchange Act.
NRSRO
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements, to the effect that the issuer thereof may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to ten years without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies as a result of such issuers failure to pay Distributions.
Optional Deferral Provision
 
15
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, any one or more of the following remedies:
Permitted Remedies
 
(a)        rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded);
 
(b)        complete or partial prohibitions on the issuer paying Distributions on or repurchasing Common Stock or other securities that rank with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including deferred Distributions, have not been paid in full or to such lesser extent as may be specified in the terms of such securities; and
pari passu
 
(c)        provisions obliging the issuer to cause such unpaid Distributions to be paid in full pursuant to an Alternative Payment Mechanism.
 
 means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Preferred Cap
 
 has the meaning specified in Recital A.
Preferred Stock
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Purchase Restriction
 
 means securities (other than Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock and Debt Exchangeable for Equity) that rank with or junior to the Most Junior Subordinated Debt of the Corporation upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up and, in the determination of the Corporations Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:
Qualifying Capital Securities
pari passu
 
(a)        in connection with any redemption or purchase of Preferred Stock prior to April 1, 2019:
 
(i)        securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (B) either (x) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and are Non-Cumulative or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;
 
(ii)        securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant, (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (D) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;
 
(iii)       securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iv)       securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (C) are Non-Cumulative;
 
(v)        securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;
 
(vi)       securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) are Non-Cumulative;
 
16
 
(vii)      securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
 
(viii)     any other preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (B) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (C) is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant;
 
(b)        in connection with any redemption or purchase of the Preferred Stock on or after April 1, 2019:
 
(i)         all securities described under clause (a) of this definition;
 
(ii)        securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iii)       securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iv)       securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (B) are Non-Cumulative;
 
(v)        securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (D) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
 
(vi)       any other preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise and (B) either (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant.
 
 means preferred or preference stock of the Corporation that (a) ranks with or junior to other preferred stock of the Corporation, (b) is perpetual with no prepayment obligation on the part of the Corporation, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (c) either (i) is Non-Cumulative and has Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, or (ii) is cumulative preferred stock and has an Explicit Replacement Covenant.
Qualifying Preferred Stock
pari passu
 
 means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that have an exercise price greater than the current Market Value of the issuers Common Stock as of their date of issuance, that do not entitle the issuer to redeem for cash and the holders of such warrants are not entitled to require the issuer to repurchase for cash in any circumstance.
Qualifying Warrants
 
 means, as to the then-effective Covered Debt, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem or defease, or the Corporation or a majority-owned Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to purchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption, defeasance or purchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption, defeasance or purchase date and (c) if the then-outstanding Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.
Redesignation Date
 
17
 
 has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Replacement Capital Covenant
 
 means securities that meet one or more of the following criteria in the determination of the Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant:
Replacement Capital Securities
 
(a)        Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock issued pursuant to the Corporations dividend reinvestment plan, direct share purchase program or employee benefit plans);
 
(b)        Debt Exchangeable for Equity;
 
(c)        Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; and
 
(d)        Qualifying Capital Securities.
 
 includes any right to acquire Common Stock, including any right to acquire Common Stock pursuant to a stock purchase plan or employee benefit plan.  Rights to acquire Common Stock shall include Qualifying Warrants.
Rights to acquire Common Stock
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Securities Exchange Act
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Share Cap
 
 means April 1, 2019.
Stepdown Date
 
 means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.
Subsidiary
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).
Termination Date
 
 
18

 
, dated as of April 1, 2009 (this ), by The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
Replacement Capital Covenant
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
 
 
A.  On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing 500,000 shares of its Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, having an aggregate liquidation preference of $500,000,000 (the ).
Preferred Stock
 
B.  This Replacement Capital Covenant is the covenant for the benefit of certain debt holders of the Corporation referred to in the certificate of designations, dated April 1, 2009, relating to the Preferred Stock (the ).
Certificate of Designations
 
C.  The Corporation, in entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below, is doing so with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
 
D.  The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
 
Section 1.        Definitions
  Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.
.
 
Section 2.        Limitations on Redemption or Purchase of Preferred Stock
.  The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not redeem or repurchase all or any portion of the Preferred Stock on or before the Termination Date except to the extent that either:
 
(a)     the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts raised through the issuance of Replacement Capital Securities:  (i) the Applicable Percentage of (A) the aggregate amount of the net cash proceeds the Corporation and its Subsidiaries have received from the sale of Common Stock and Rights to acquire Common Stock, and (B) the Market Value of any Common Stock that has been issued (x) as consideration for property or assets in an arms-length transaction or (y) in connection with the conversion into or exchange for Common Stock of any convertible or exchangeable securities, other than, in the case of (y), securities for which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries has received equity credit from any NRSRO; (ii) the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries from the sale of Replacement Capital Securities (other than the securities set forth in clause (i) above); in each case, to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period); that the limitations in this Section 2 shall not restrict the repayment, redemption or other acquisition of any shares of Preferred Stock that have been previously purchased in accordance with this Replacement Capital Covenant; or
plus
provided
 
(b)     the shares of Preferred Stock are exchanged for consideration that includes an aggregate principal amount or liquidation preference (or, in the case of Common Stock, Market Value) of
 
 
Replacement Capital Securities equal to 100% prior to the Stepdown Date and 50% on or after the Stepdown Date (or, in the case of Common Stock, 50% prior to the Stepdown Date and 25% on or after the Stepdown Date) of the aggregate Original Purchase Price (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) of Preferred Stock that is exchanged.
 
Section 3.        Covered Debt
    The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.
.
(a)
 
(b)     On, or during the 30-day period immediately preceding, any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:
 
(i)     the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
 
(ii)     if only one series of the Corporations then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
 
(iii)     if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify a specific series that has the latest stated final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
 
(iv)     the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and
 
(v)     in connection with such identification of a new series of the Covered Debt, notice shall be given as provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.
 
(c)     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant, if a series of Eligible Senior Debt of the Corporation has become the Covered Debt in accordance with Section 3(b), on the date on which the Corporation issues a new series of Eligible Subordinated Debt, then immediately upon such issuance such series shall become the Covered Debt and the applicable series of Eligible Senior Debt shall cease to be the Covered Debt.
 
(d)     .  In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant, or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, (A) notice shall be given to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture or other instrument under which such Initial Covered Debt was issued, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) the Corporation shall file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in each Form 10-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission; (iii) if a series of the Corporations long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt, notice of such occurrence shall be given within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued, and the
Notice
 
2
 
Corporation shall report such change in a Form 8-K, which must include or incorporate by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporations next Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, as applicable; (iv) upon succession of any new entity as the Corporation hereunder as a result of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets or other business combination of the Corporation as it existed prior thereto, notice of such occurrence shall be given within 30 days to the holders of the Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and the Corporation shall report such change in a Form 8-K, which must include or incorporate by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporations next Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, as applicable; (v) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation will (A) post on its website (or any other similar electronic platform generally available to the public) the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) above; and (B) cause a notice of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be posted on the Bloomberg screen for the Initial Covered Debt or any successor Bloomberg screen or, if none, a similar third-party vendors screen the Corporation reasonably believes is appropriate (each an ) and cause a hyperlink of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each series of Covered Debt, in each case to the extent permitted by Bloomberg or such similar third-party vendor, as the case may be; and (vi) promptly upon the request of any Holder of Covered Debt, such Holder will be provided with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
Investor Screen
 
Section 4.        Termination and Amendment
.    The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the ) to occur of (i) April 1, 2039 or if earlier, the date on which the Preferred Stock are otherwise paid, redeemed or purchased in full (in compliance with the terms of Section 2 of this Replacement Capital Covenant), (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of at least a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (iii) the date on which the Corporation has no outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term) and (iv) the date on which a Change of Control (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) occurs.  From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect with respect to the Holders or otherwise.
(a)
Termination Date
 
   
(b)     This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority of outstanding principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt, that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if any of the following apply (it being understood that any such amendment or supplement may fall into one or more of the following):  (i) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Common Equity Units and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities, if, in the case of this clause, after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to eliminate Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Common Equity Units and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities would result in a reduction in the Corporations earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (), or the Corporation otherwise has been advised in writing by a nationally recognized independent accounting firm that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to eliminate such securities as Replacement Capital Securities would result in a reduction of the Corporations EPS, (ii) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the ability of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries to redeem or purchase the Preferred Stock or to impose additional restrictions on, or to eliminate certain of, the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities (other than securities which are covered by clause (i) above) and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt in the manner
provided
EPS
 
3
 
provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for borrowed money was issued a written certificate to that effect, (iii) such amendment or supplement extends the date specified in Section 4(a)(i) or (iv) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the rights of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt hereunder and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt.  For the avoidance of doubt, an amendment or supplement that adds new types of Replacement Capital Securities or modifies the requirements of the Replacement Capital Securities described herein would not be adverse to the rights of the Holders of Covered Debt if, following such amendment or supplement, this Replacement Capital Covenant would satisfy the definition of Explicit Replacement Covenant.
 
(c)     For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement this Replacement Capital Covenant or the obligations of the Corporation hereunder shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.
 
Section 5.        Miscellaneous.
    THIS REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
(a)
 
(b)     This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Persons rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).  The Corporation agrees that, if at any time the Covered Debt is held by a trust (for example, where the Covered Debt is part of an issuance of trust preferred securities), a holder of the securities issued by such trust may enforce (including by instituting legal proceedings) this Replacement Capital Covenant directly against the Corporation as though such holder owned the Covered Debt directly, and the holders of such trust securities shall be deemed Holders of Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for so long as the indebtedness held by such trust remains Covered Debt hereunder.  Other than the Covered Debtholders as provided in the two previous sentences, no other Person shall have any rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant or be deemed a third party beneficiary of this Replacement Capital Covenant.  In particular, no holder of the Preferred Stock is a third party beneficiary of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
 
(c)     All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) or (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as may thereafter be listed as the principal executive offices of the Corporation in the then most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q of the Corporation, or as may thereafter be posted on the Corporations website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:
 
4
 
The Dow Chemical Company
2030 Dow Center
Midland, Michigan 48674
Attention:  Executive Vice President, General Counsel
            and Corporate Secretary
Facsimile:  (989) 638-9347
 
with a copy to:
 
Shearman & Sterling LLP
599 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10022-6069
 
Attention:  Joel S. Klaperman, Esq.
Facsimile:  (212) 848-7179
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by a duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement Capital Covenant (Series C)
 
 
 
Definitions
 
 means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the related transaction documents that require the issuer thereof to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue), in its sole discretion, one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising  (as defined in (a) below) at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which such issuer pays current Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:
Alternative Payment Mechanism
eligible proceeds
 
(a)     define  to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters or placement agents fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale, and including the fair market value of property received by the issuer or any of its subsidiaries as consideration for such APM Qualifying Securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, up to the Preferred Cap (as defined in (e) below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;
eligible proceeds
 
(b)     permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds;
 
(c)     if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (or such shorter period as may be provided for in the terms of such securities), require the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries not to redeem or purchase any securities that rank with or junior to any APM Qualifying Securities that the Corporation has issued to settle deferred Distributions in respect to that deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid (a ), other than the following (none of which shall be restricted or prohibited by a Purchase Restriction):
pari passu
Purchase Restriction
 
(i)     purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries of shares of Common Stock in connection with any employment or compensatory contract, compensation or benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants; or
 
(ii)     purchases by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy shares of Common Stock entered into prior to the beginning of the related deferral period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan;
 
(d)     limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants, either (i) during the first five years of any deferral period or (ii) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of any deferral period ( that such limitation shall not apply after a date not later than the ninth anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period), to a number of shares of Common Stock and Rights to acquire Common Stock which does not, in the aggregate, exceed 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock, in each case as of the date of the Corporations most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements at the time of such issuance (the );
provided
Common Cap
 
(e)     limit the right of the Corporation to issue APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, to an amount from the issuance of such Qualifying Preferred Stock and then-still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (including, in the case of Qualifying Preferred Stock, at any
 
7
 
point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism) equal to 25% of the initial liquidation or principal amount of the Qualifying Capital Securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the );
Preferred Cap
 
(f)     in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision; and
 
(g)     permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if the Corporation is involved in a merger, consolidation, amalgamation, statutory share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a ) where immediately after the consummation of the business combination more than 50% of the voting stock of the surviving entity of the business combination, or the entity to whom all or substantially all of the Corporations assets are conveyed, transferred or leased, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the business combination, then clauses (a), (b) and (c) above will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following the date of consummation of the business combination;
business combination
 
(and it being understood) that:
provided
 
(a)     the Alternative Payment Mechanism may at the discretion of the Corporation include a share cap limiting the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities consisting of Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, in each case to a maximum issuance cap to be set at the discretion of the Corporation (a ); that such Share Cap will be subject to the Corporations agreement to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to increase the Share Cap when reached and (i) only to the extent it can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of Common Stock or (ii) if the Corporation cannot increase the Share Cap as contemplated in the preceding clause, by requesting its Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for shareholder vote at the next occurring annual shareholders meeting to increase the number of shares of the Corporations authorized Common Stock for purposes of satisfying its obligations to pay deferred Distributions;
Share Cap
provided
 
(b)     such issuer shall not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
 
(c)     if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, such issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, such issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap, and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable; and
 
(d)     if such issuers has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by such issuers from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis up to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.
 
 means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism, any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or any Mandatory Trigger Provision, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision or for any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity):
APM Qualifying Securities
 
(a)     Common Stock;
 
(b)     Qualifying Warrants;
 
(c)     Qualifying Preferred Stock; and
 
8
 
(d)     Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
 
that if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism, any Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or any Mandatory Trigger Provision include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants, such Alternative Payment Mechanism, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants.
provided
 
 means:
Applicable Percentage
 
(i)     with respect to Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 200% prior to the Stepdown Date and 400% on or after the Stepdown Date;
 
(ii)     a) with respect to Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (a) of the definition of that term, 100% prior to the Stepdown Date and 200% on or after the Stepdown Date and (b) with respect to Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (b) of the definition of that term, 100%; and
(
 
(iii)     with respect to Debt Exchangeable for Equity, 150% prior to the Stepdown Date and 300% on or after the Stepdown Date.
 
 means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities to Distributions that accumulate during (a) any deferral period, in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (b) any period in which the issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities having a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:
Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision
 
(iv)     in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities having an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and
 
(v)     in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) the amount of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts) that relate to the earliest two years of the portion of the deferral period for which Distributions have not been paid and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger Provision, that the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the remaining claim exceeds the amount set forth in subclause (x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they would have received had the claim for such excess ranked with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.
provided
pari passu
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a duly constituted committee thereof.
Board of Directors
 
 means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
 
9
 
 means, for purposes of selling APM Qualifying Securities, commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries in public offerings or private placements.  The issuer of APM Qualifying Securities shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of APM Qualifying Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
 
 means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Common Cap
 
 means a security or combination of securities that:
Common Equity Units
 
(i)     gives the holders (a) a beneficial interest in a fixed income security of the Corporation (including a debt security, a trust preferred security of a subsidiary trust or preferred stock) that has a maturity no greater than six years and (b) a beneficial interest in a stock purchase contract;
 
(ii)     includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the fixed income security is required to be remarketed to new investors within four years from the date of issuance of the security; and
 
(iii)     provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Common Stock pursuant to the stock purchase contract for a determinable number of shares or within a range established at the time of issuance of the Common Equity Units, in each case subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
 
 means any equity securities of the Corporation (including equity securities held as treasury shares and equity securities sold pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan, direct stock purchase plan or director or employee benefit plan) that have no preference in the payment of dividends or amounts payable upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (including any security that tracks the performance of, or relates to the results of, a business, unit or division of the Corporation), and any securities that have no preference in the payment of dividends or amounts payable upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and are issued in exchange therefor in connection with a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, business combination, recapitalization or other similar event.
Common Stock
 
 has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Corporation
 
 means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.
Covered Debt
 
 means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt, that a Person who has sold all its right, title and interest in Covered Debt shall cease to be a Covered Debtholder at the time of such sale if, at such time, the Corporation has not breached or repudiated, or threatened to breach or repudiate, its obligations hereunder.
Covered Debtholder
provided
 
 means Common Equity Units or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity.
Debt Exchangeable for Equity
 
 means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, ) that:
Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity
such securities
 
10
 
(a)     gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation permitting the Corporation to defer Distributions in whole or in part on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods of up to at least seven years without any remedies other than Permitted Remedies and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) (in this definition, ) and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share or shares of Qualifying Preferred Stock of the Corporation that ranks with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation (in this definition, );
pari passu
subordinated debt
pari passu
preferred stock
 
(b)     provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the holders direct or indirect obligation to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
 
(c)     includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of such securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on:  (i) the dissolution of the issuer of such securities or (ii) one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of the instrument governing such securities;
 
(d)     provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing of the subordinated debt to be used to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its remedies as a secured party with respect to its subordinated debt or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by the holders of such securities;
 
(e)     is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant that will apply to such securities and preferred stock of the Corporation, and will not include Debt Exchangeable for Equity as a Replacement Capital Security; and
 
(f)     if applicable, after the issuance of such preferred stock of the Corporation, provides the holders of such securities with a beneficial interest in such preferred stock of the Corporation.
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.
Distribution Date
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.
Distribution Period
 
 means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Distributions
 
 means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.
Eligible Debt
 
 means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuers then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuers then outstanding classes of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO ( that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment
Eligible Senior Debt
provided
 
11
 
banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.  For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuers long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
 
 means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuers then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Preferred Stock and subordinate to the issuers then outstanding series of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO ( that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.  For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuers long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
Eligible Subordinated Debt
provided
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, that the issuer has made a covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant to the effect that the issuer will redeem, defease or purchase, and any Subsidiaries of the issuer will purchase, such securities only if and to the extent that the applicable percentage of the amount raised through the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, defeasance or purchase that are as much or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, defeased or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption, defeasance or purchase date, and that the board of directors of the issuer has determined that such covenant is binding on the issuer for the benefit of one or more series of the long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the issuer (or an affiliate of the issuer, if the covenant so provides) to the same extent as this Replacement Capital Covenant is binding on the Corporation for the benefit of the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt; that the term of such Explicit Replacement Covenant shall be determined at the time of issuance of the related Replacement Capital Securities taking into account the other characteristics of such securities.
Explicit Replacement Covenant
provided
 
 means a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 8-K
 
 means an Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 10-K
 
 means a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act, and any successor report.
Form 10-Q
 
 means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt.
Holder
 
 means the Corporations 7.375% Debentures due 2029 (CUSIP 260543 BJ1).
Initial Covered Debt
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities issued, directly or indirectly, that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such security or combination of securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer or an affiliate under the Securities Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer will redeem, purchase or defease such
Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure
 
12
 
securities only with amounts raised from securities that would be considered Replacement Capital Securities, substantially as that term is defined herein but as applied to such securities instead of to the Preferred Stock, issued within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption or purchase date.
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 3(d).
Investor Screen
 
 means cumulative preferred stock of the Corporation with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock within three years from the date of its issuance for a determinable number of shares or within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, provisions in the terms thereof or in the related transaction agreements that (a) require, or at its option in the case of perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock permit, the issuer of such security or combination of securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only in connection with the issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, within two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale at least equal the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case requires the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions; that (i) such Mandatory Trigger Provision shall limit the issuance and sale of Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants the proceeds of which may be applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision to the Common Cap, unless the Mandatory Trigger Provision requires such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock or still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap, (b) in the case of securities other than perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, prohibit the issuer from purchasing any APM Qualifying Securities, or any securities that rank with or junior to APM Qualifying Securities, prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (a) to pay such unpaid Distributions in full, (c) in the case of securities other than perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision and (d) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (or such shorter period as may be provided for in the terms of such securities), prohibit the issuer of such securities from redeeming or purchasing any of its securities ranking upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer junior to or with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred Distributions during the relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid.  For purposes of this definition of Mandatory Trigger Provision, (1) the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) any such APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing; (2) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable; and (3) if the issuer has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of any such APM Qualifying Securities and applies some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis up to the Common Cap, the Preferred Cap and the Share Cap (if any), as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.  No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuers failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuers exercise of its right under an Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.
Mandatory Trigger Provision
provided
pari passu
pari passu
 
13
 
 means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
Market Disruption Event
 
(a)     trading in securities generally, or in the securities of the issuer (or any affiliate of the issuer that may issue securities in settlement of an Alternative Payment Mechanism) specifically, on The New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which such securities are then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, such securities;
 
(b)     the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) would be required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders (or the shareholders of an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue APM Qualifying Securities and the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) fails to obtain that consent or approval notwithstanding the commercially reasonable efforts of the issuer (or such affiliate) to obtain that consent or approval or a regulatory authority instructs the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) not to sell or offer for sale such securities;
 
(c)     a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(d)     a disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(e)     the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(f)     there shall have occurred such an adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
 
(g)     an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for the offer and sale of the APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)), contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated in that offering document or necessary to make the statements in that offering document not misleading and either (A) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)), would have a material adverse effect on the business of the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (i)) or (B) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the ability of the issuer or any affiliate to consummate that transaction, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (vii) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (vii) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
provided
 
(h)     the issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (a)) reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above, that the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the
 
14
 
issuer (or an affiliate as specified in clause (a)) is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
provided
 
definition of  or similar words as used in any securities or combination of securities that constitute Replacement Capital Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the issuer thereof at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the issuer would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the issuers preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.
The
Market Disruption Event
 
 means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by The New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on The New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the Market Value will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Corporation for this purpose.
Market Value
 
 with respect to any redemption or purchase of Preferred Stock, means the period (i) beginning on the date that is 180 days prior to the date of delivery of notice of such redemption (such date of delivery, the ) or the date of such purchase and (ii) ending on such notice date or the date of such purchase.  Measurement Periods cannot run concurrently.
Measurement Period
notice date
 
 means debt securities of the Corporation that rank upon the Corporations liquidation, dissolution or winding-up junior to all of the Corporations other long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (other than the Corporations long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks with such securities) and with the claims of the Corporations trade creditors.
Most Junior Subordinated Debt
pari passu
pari passu
 
 means, with respect to any securities, that the issuer thereof may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.  Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism shall also be deemed to be Non-Cumulative for all purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant except in the definition of Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock and Qualifying Preferred Stock
Non-Cumulative
.
 
 means preferred or preference stock having Distributions which may be skipped by the issuer thereof for any number of Distribution Periods without any remedy arising under the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of such issuers failure to pay Distributions, other than Permitted Remedies.
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock
 
 means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such term is used under the Securities Exchange Act.
NRSRO
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements, to the effect that the issuer thereof may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to ten years without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies as a result of such issuers failure to pay Distributions.
Optional Deferral Provision
 
15
 
 means, as to any security or combination of securities, any one or more of the following remedies:
Permitted Remedies
 
(a)     rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded);
 
(b)     complete or partial prohibitions on the issuer paying Distributions on or repurchasing Common Stock or other securities that rank with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including deferred Distributions, have not been paid in full or to such lesser extent as may be specified in the terms of such securities; and
pari passu
 
(c)     provisions obliging the issuer to cause such unpaid Distributions to be paid in full pursuant to an Alternative Payment Mechanism.
 
 means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Preferred Cap
 
 has the meaning specified in Recital A.
Preferred Stock
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Purchase Restriction
 
 means securities (other than Common Stock, Rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock and Debt Exchangeable for Equity) that rank with or junior to the Most Junior Subordinated Debt of the Corporation upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up and, in the determination of the Corporations Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:
Qualifying Capital Securities
pari passu
 
(a)     in connection with any redemption or purchase of Preferred Stock prior to April 1, 2019:
 
(i)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (B) either (x) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and are Non-Cumulative or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;
 
(ii)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant, (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (D) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;
 
(iii)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iv)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (C) are Non-Cumulative;
 
(v)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;
 
(vi)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) are Non-Cumulative;
 
16
 
 
(vii)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
 
(viii)     any other preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (B) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (C) is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant;
 
(b)     in connection with any redemption or purchase of the Preferred Stock on or after April 1, 2019:
 
(i)     all securities described under clause (a) of this definition;
 
(ii)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iii)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (B) are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision;
 
(iv)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant and (B) are Non-Cumulative;
 
(v)     securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years, (B) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, (C) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (D) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
 
(vi)     any other preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise and (B) either (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to an Explicit Replacement Covenant.
 
 means preferred or preference stock of the Corporation that (a) ranks with or junior to other preferred stock of the Corporation, (b) is perpetual with no prepayment obligation on the part of the Corporation, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (c) either (i) is Non-Cumulative and has Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, or (ii) is cumulative preferred stock and has an Explicit Replacement Covenant.
Qualifying Preferred Stock
pari passu
 
 means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that have an exercise price greater than the current Market Value of the issuers Common Stock as of their date of issuance, that do not entitle the issuer to redeem for cash and the holders of such warrants are not entitled to require the issuer to repurchase for cash in any circumstance.
Qualifying Warrants
 
 means, as to the then-effective Covered Debt, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem or defease, or the Corporation or a majority-owned Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to purchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption, defeasance or purchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption, defeasance or purchase date and (c) if the then-outstanding Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.
Redesignation Date
 
17
 
 has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Replacement Capital Covenant
 
 means securities that meet one or more of the following criteria in the determination of the Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant:
Replacement Capital Securities
 
(a)     Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock issued pursuant to the Corporations dividend reinvestment plan, direct share purchase program or employee benefit plans);
 
(b)     Debt Exchangeable for Equity;
 
(c)     Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; and
 
(d)     Qualifying Capital Securities.
 
 includes any right to acquire Common Stock, including any right to acquire Common Stock pursuant to a stock purchase plan or employee benefit plan.  Rights to acquire Common Stock shall include Qualifying Warrants.
Rights to acquire Common Stock
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Securities Exchange Act
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Share Cap
 
 means April 1, 2019.
Stepdown Date
 
 means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.
Subsidiary
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).
Termination Date
 
 
 
18
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
THIS GUARANTEE (this ) is dated as of April 1, 2009 and by The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the ).
Guarantee
Guarantor
 
 
WHEREAS, the Rohm and Haas Company (the ) executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2007, (as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), a national banking association, as trustee (the ), providing for the issuance of the Companys 5.60% Notes due 2013 (the );
Company
Indenture
Trustee
Notes
WHEREAS, on the date hereof, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 10, 2008, the Company has become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Guarantor;
WHEREAS, the Guarantor is undertaking to execute and deliver this Guarantee to provide a guarantee by the Guarantor of the obligations of the Company under the Notes on the terms set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the Guarantor hereby covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1.   .  For all purposes of this Guarantee, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, all capitalized terms defined herein and in either of the Indentures shall have the meanings assigned to them herein.  All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Definitions
 
 
Section 2.1.  .  The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as principal obligor and not only as a surety, to the Persons in whose name a Note is registered in the Security Register for the Notes (the ) and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Companys obligations under the Notes, that the due and punctual payment of the principal of, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise, shall be duly and punctually paid when due according to the terms of the Indenture and the Notes.
Unconditional Guarantee
Holders
 
In case of the failure of the Company punctually to pay any such principal, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest, the Guarantor hereby agrees, upon the receipt of written notice from the Trustee or the Holders of such failure, to cause any such payment to be made within five (5) days of such notice. 
 
The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first
 
1
 
against the Company, protest or notice (except pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph) with respect to the Notes, and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and in the Guarantee.
 
The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee; , that the Guarantor shall not, without the consent of the Holders of all of the Notes then outstanding, be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Notes shall have been paid in full or payment thereof shall have been provided for in accordance with the Indenture.
provided, however
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if following any payment of principal or interest by the Company on the Notes to the Holders it is determined by a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction that such payment shall be avoided by a trustee in bankruptcy (including any debtor-in-possession) as a preference under 11 U.S.C. Section 547 and such payment is paid by any such Holder to such trustee in bankruptcy, then and to the extent of such repayment, the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened prior to the creation and issuance of this Guarantee and to constitute the same as the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor enforceable in accordance with its terms, have been done and performed and have happened in due and strict compliance with applicable laws.
 
 
Section 2.2.  .  Another entity may be substituted for the Guarantor if: (i) such entity (the ) is a corporation, company, partnership, or trust organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, (ii) such Substitute Guarantor expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee by an instrument substantially similar to this Guarantee; and (iii) immediately after giving effect to such substitution, the Notes are rated Investment Grade by one or both of the Rating Agencies.  Upon any such substitution pursuant to this Section 2.2, the Guarantor shall be immediately and automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action.
Substitution of the Guarantor
Substitute Guarantor
 
 
Section 2.3. . The Guarantor will be automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action required if (i) the Notes have been paid in full or are no longer Outstanding, (ii) the Guarantor is dissolved or liquidated or (iii) if the corporation that is then the Company (for purposes of this clause (iii) only, as such term is defined under the Indenture) is no longer a corporation of which more than 50% of the total ordinary voting power of shares of capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors is owned, directly or indirectly, by the
Release of the Guarantor
Guarantor.
 
 
Section 3.1.  .  This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
2
 
Section 3.2.  .  This Guarantee shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders as they exist from time to time.  Other than the Trustee and the Holders, no other Person shall have any rights under this Guarantee or be deemed a third party beneficiary of this Guarantee.
Third Party Beneficiary
 
Section 3.3.  .  If any provision in this Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 3.4.  .  This Guarantee may be amended without the consent of the Trustee or the Holders to the extent necessary in order to comply with applicable law.
Compliance with Law
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
 
THIS GUARANTEE (this ) is dated as of April 1, 2009 and by The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the ).
Guarantee
Guarantor
 
 
WHEREAS, the Rohm and Haas Company (the ) executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2007, (as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), a national banking association, as trustee (the ), providing for the issuance of the Companys 6.00% Notes due 2017 (the );
Company
Indenture
Trustee
Notes
WHEREAS, on the date hereof, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 10, 2008, the Company has become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Guarantor;
WHEREAS, the Guarantor is undertaking to execute and deliver this Guarantee to provide a guarantee by the Guarantor of the obligations of the Company under the Notes on the terms set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the Guarantor hereby covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1.  .  For all purposes of this Guarantee, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, all capitalized terms defined herein and in either of the Indentures shall have the meanings assigned to them herein.  All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Definitions
 
 
Section 2.1.  .  The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as principal obligor and not only as a surety, to the Persons in whose name a Note is registered in the Security Register for the Notes (the ) and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Companys obligations under the Notes, that the due and punctual payment of the principal of, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise, shall be duly and punctually paid when due according to the terms of the Indenture and the Notes.
Unconditional Guarantee
Holders
 
In case of the failure of the Company punctually to pay any such principal, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest, the Guarantor hereby agrees, upon the receipt of written notice from the Trustee or the Holders of such failure, to cause any such payment to be made within five (5) days of such notice. 
 
The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first
 
1
 
against the Company, protest or notice (except pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph) with respect to the Notes, and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and in the Guarantee.
 
The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee; , that the Guarantor shall not, without the consent of the Holders of all of the Notes then outstanding, be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Notes shall have been paid in full or payment thereof shall have been provided for in accordance with the Indenture.
provided, however
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if following any payment of principal or interest by the Company on the Notes to the Holders it is determined by a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction that such payment shall be avoided by a trustee in bankruptcy (including any debtor-in-possession) as a preference under 11 U.S.C. Section 547 and such payment is paid by any such Holder to such trustee in bankruptcy, then and to the extent of such repayment, the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened prior to the creation and issuance of this Guarantee and to constitute the same as the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor enforceable in accordance with its terms, have been done and performed and have happened in due and strict compliance with applicable laws.
 
 
Section 2.2.  .  Another entity may be substituted for the Guarantor if: (i) such entity (the ) is a corporation, company, partnership, or trust organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, (ii) such Substitute Guarantor expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee by an instrument substantially similar to this Guarantee; and (iii) immediately after giving effect to such substitution, the Notes are rated Investment Grade by one or both of the Rating Agencies.  Upon any such substitution pursuant to this Section 2.2, the Guarantor shall be immediately and automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action.
Substitution of the Guarantor
Substitute Guarantor
 
Section 2.3.  . The Guarantor will be automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action required if (i) the Notes have been paid in full or are no longer Outstanding, (ii) the Guarantor is dissolved or liquidated or (iii) if the corporation that is then the Company (for purposes of this clause (iii) only, as such term is defined under the Indenture)
Release of the Guarantor
is no longer a corporation of which more than 50% of the total ordinary voting power of shares of capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Guarantor.
 
 
Section 3.1.  .  This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
2
 
Section 3.2.  .  This Guarantee shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders as they exist from time to time.  Other than the Trustee and the Holders, no other Person shall have any rights under this Guarantee or be deemed a third party beneficiary of this Guarantee.
Third Party Beneficiary
 
Section 3.3.  .  If any provision in this Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 3.4.  .  This Guarantee may be amended without the consent of the Trustee or the Holders to the extent necessary in order to comply with applicable law.
Compliance with Law
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.6
 
THIS GUARANTEE (this ) is dated as of April 1, 2009 and by The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation (the ).
Guarantee
Guarantor
 
 
WHEREAS, Rohm and Haas Holdings Ltd. (), as issuer, and Rohm and Haas Company (the ), as guarantor, executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1990, (as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), among Holdings, the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor to The Philadelphia National Bank, as trustee (the ), providing for the issuance of Holdings 9.80% Debentures due 2020 (the );
Holdings
Company
Indenture
Trustee
Debentures
WHEREAS, on the date hereof, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 10, 2008, the Company has become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Guarantor;
WHEREAS, the Guarantor is undertaking to execute and deliver this Guarantee to provide a guarantee by the Guarantor of the obligations of Holdings and the Company under the Debentures on the terms set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the Guarantor hereby covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1.  .  For all purposes of this Guarantee, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, all capitalized terms defined herein and in either of the Indentures shall have the meanings assigned to them herein.  All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Definitions
 
 
Section 2.1. .  The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as principal obligor and not only as a surety, to the Persons in whose name a Note is registered in the Security Register for the Debentures (the ) and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Companys obligations under the Debentures, that the due and punctual payment of the principal of, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest on the Debentures, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise, shall be duly and punctually paid when due according to the terms of the Indenture and the Debentures.
Unconditional Guarantee
Holders
 
In case of the failure of the Company punctually to pay any such principal, sinking fund payment, if any, premium, if any, or interest, the Guarantor hereby agrees, upon the receipt of written notice from the Trustee or the Holders of such failure, to cause any such payment to be made within five (5) days of such notice.
 
1
 
The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice (except pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph) with respect to the Debentures, and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debentures and in the Guarantee.
 
The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee; , that the Guarantor shall not, without the consent of the Holders of all of the Debentures then outstanding, be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Debentures shall have been paid in full or payment thereof shall have been provided for in accordance with the Indenture.
provided, however
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if following any payment of principal or interest by the Company on the Debentures to the Holders it is determined by a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction that such payment shall be avoided by a trustee in bankruptcy (including any debtor-in-possession) as a preference under 11 U.S.C. Section 547 and such payment is paid by any such Holder to such trustee in bankruptcy, then and to the extent of such repayment, the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened prior to the creation and issuance of this Guarantee and to constitute the same as the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor enforceable in accordance with its terms, have been done and performed and have happened in due and strict compliance with applicable laws.
 
Section 2.2.  .  Another entity may be substituted for the Guarantor if: (i) such entity (the ) is a corporation, company, partnership, or trust organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, (ii) such Substitute Guarantor expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee by an instrument substantially similar to this Guarantee; and (iii) immediately after giving effect to such substitution, the Debentures are rated Investment Grade by one or both of the Rating Agencies.  Upon any such substitution pursuant to this Section 2.2, the Guarantor shall be immediately and automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action.
Substitution of the Guarantor
Substitute Guarantor
 
Section 2.3. . The Guarantor will be automatically discharged and released from all obligations under this Guarantee without any further action required if (i) the Debentures have been paid in full or are no longer Outstanding, (ii) the Guarantor is dissolved or liquidated or (iii) if the corporation that is then the Company (for purposes of this clause (iii) only, as such term is defined under the Indenture) is no longer a corporation of which more than 50% of the total ordinary voting power of shares of capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Guarantor.
Release of the Guarantor
 
2
 
 
Section 3.1.  .  This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
Section 3.2.  .  This Guarantee shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders as they exist from time to time.  Other than the Trustee and the Holders, no other Person shall have any rights under this Guarantee or be deemed a third party beneficiary of this Guarantee.
Third Party Beneficiary
 
Section 3.3.  .  If any provision in this Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 3.4.  .  This Guarantee may be amended without the consent of the Trustee or the Holders to the extent necessary in order to comply with applicable law.
Compliance with Law
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 


