FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20090203095529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 3, 2009, The Dow Chemical Company issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing results for the fourth quarter of 2008.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1  Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on February 3, 2009, announcing results for the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
 

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
February 3, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company or an affiliated company of Dow.
TM
Free cash flow is defined as Cash provided by operating activities of $2,249 million less Capital expenditures of $692 million less Dividends paid to stockholders of $389 million.
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comment
 
:
Andrew N. Liveris, Dows chairman and chief executive officer, stated
 
With a global economic crisis unfolding during the quarter, we responded with speed and urgency to get ahead of the demand destruction that continued to accelerate as we approached the end of the year. We immediately put in place a full array of aggressive cash generation and cost and capital control measures that delivered results. We remain intensely focused on those actions that we can control and will continue to do so throughout 2009.
 
Earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interests (EBIT). A reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss) Available for Common Stockholders is provided following the Operating Segments table.
(2)
 
Review of Fourth Quarter Results
 
The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) reported sales of $10.9 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008, representing a 23 percent decline compared with the same period last year.
 
The Company reported a net loss of $1,552 million, reflecting the impact of net after-tax charges of $978 million related to restructuring activities, goodwill impairment losses, the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, K-Dow related expenses, purchased in-process research and development charges (IPR&D), and expenses related to the Companys announced acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company. This compares with net income of $472 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, which reflected the impact of after-tax charges of $447 million related to restructuring activities and an adjustment to IPR&D, which were partially offset by a reduction in the provision for income taxes of $113 million related to a change in the legal ownership structure of EQUATE. (See Supplemental Information at the end of the release for a description of these items.)
 
Dow reported a loss per share of $1.68, which included charges totaling $1.06 for the items referenced above. This compares with earnings per share of $0.49 in the year ago period, which included net charges of $0.35 per share for the items referenced above.
 
Price was down 6 percent versus the same quarter last year, as a 15 percent decline in the combined Basics segments was partially offset by an increase of 4 percent in the combined Performance segments. Performance Chemicals reported price gains of 9 percent, while Agricultural Sciences was up 6 percent.
 
Volume declined 17 percent, and was down in all operating segments and in all geographic areas, reflecting the global economic downturn as well as the de-stocking that occurred through most value chains.
 
Purchased feedstock and energy costs were down 23 percent versus the same quarter last year, contributing to the decline in prices reported in the Basics segments.
 
Despite prices declining at a slower pace than feedstock and energy costs, the widespread demand destruction in the quarter resulted in margin compression. The Company reduced production to match poor market conditions, which resulted in historically low operating rates, particularly in December which was 44 percent. For the full quarter, the operating rate was 64 percent  a rate not seen in more than 25 years  which led to higher unabsorbed fixed costs.
 
Equity earnings/losses were a net loss of $4 million, as nonconsolidated affiliates reported margin compression due to volume and price declines brought on by global recessionary pressures.
 
Selling, Administrative and Research and Development (SARD) expenses decreased 9 percent year over year, reflecting the Companys strict spending discipline even as strategic bolt-on acquisitions by Dow AgroSciences continued.
 
The Company delivered on its fourth quarter commitments related to generating cash and controlling costs as outlined in October 2008. Management interventions contributed to cash provided by operating activities of $2.2 billion and free cash flow of $1.2 billion in the quarter.
 
Dows effective tax rate for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by several items totaling $295 million (equivalent to $0.32 per share), including higher foreign income taxes, principally in Canada; U.S. tax on increased dividends from foreign subsidiaries; and valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets.
 
With a global economic crisis unfolding during the quarter, we responded with speed and urgency to get ahead of the demand destruction that continued to accelerate as we approached the end of the year, said Andrew N. Liveris, chairman and chief executive officer. We immediately put in place a full array of aggressive cash generation and cost and capital control measures that delivered results. We remain intensely focused on those actions that we can control and will continue to do so throughout 2009.
 
Performance Plastics
 
Sales in the Performance Plastics segment were $3.16 billion, down 20 percent from the same period last year. Price increased 1 percent, while volume declined 21 percent. Polyurethanes reported a loss of volume reflecting global weakness in furniture, automotive, appliance and bedding applications. Dow Epoxy reported stable demand in metal coating applications used in food packaging, marine coatings and in coatings for pipelines and other infrastructure applications, as ongoing projects progressed on schedule. These gains, however, were more than offset by declines in industrial coatings used in building and construction applications. Dow Automotive reported significant volume declines, due to the broadening global downturn in vehicle production. The Specialty Plastics and Elastomers business also posted a decrease in volume, due to sluggish demand in automotive, footwear and building applications. Demand for telecommunication fiber optic cables in the Wire and Cable business increased, as did demand for power cable used in commercial construction segments. The Performance Plastics segment reported a loss in fourth quarter EBIT of $479 million, which included charges of $111 million for restructuring, a goodwill impairment loss of $209 million, and $13 million related to the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. This compares with fourth quarter EBIT of $158 million in the same quarter last year, which included restructuring charges of $184 million.
 
 
Performance Chemicals
 
Performance Chemicals reported a 7 percent decrease in sales to $1.97 billion versus sales of $2.13 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007. Globally, price was up 9 percent while volume decreased 16 percent. Pricing showed resilience in the quarter, and was up in all geographic areas and in all businesses. However, results were negatively impacted by double-digit declines in volume in all geographic areas. Price was up in Designed Polymers, due in part to strength in food and pharmaceutical end-use markets served by Dow Wolff Cellulosics, and in Dow Water Solutions, which reported favorable demand for reverse osmosis membranes used in sulfate removal applications. Continued volume declines for cellulosics used in the automotive and construction industries negatively impacted overall results at Dow Wolff Cellulosics. Dow Emulsion Polymers reported ongoing weakness in paper and carpet applications, the latter reflecting the global slowdown in the housing sector. Equity earnings increased year over year, driven by results at Dow Corning. EBIT for Performance Chemicals was $174 million for the quarter, reflecting charges of $25 million for restructuring and the impact of the two hurricanes. This compares with EBIT of $124 million in the same quarter last year, which included a net $83 million of restructuring charges and an adjustment to IPR&D.
 
 
Agricultural Sciences
 
The Agricultural Sciences segment posted record fourth quarter sales of $885 million, 2 percent higher than the same quarter last year. This marked the tenth consecutive quarter that Dow AgroSciences has recorded a sales record versus the comparative period of the prior year. Volume declined 4 percent, and price increased 6 percent. Price was up in all geographic areas except Asia Pacific, while both price and volume increased in North America. Seed sales increased versus the same quarter last year, led by U.S. corn sales and sunflower sales in Latin America. Sales of agricultural chemicals declined due to product shortages and lack of available credit for farmers in some regions. Continuing its strategic growth agenda, Dow AgroSciences acquired Brodbeck Seeds, Sdwestsaat GbR and the corn assets of Coodetec in Brazil, bringing the number of acquisitions since May 2007 to nine. New products aminopyralid, penoxsulam, pyroxsulam and spinetoram continued to ramp-up successfully. Fourth quarter EBIT for Agricultural Sciences was $34 million, which included a charge of $17 million for IPR&D related to a recent acquisition and $3 million in restructuring charges. This compares with a loss of $38 million in the same period last year, which included restructuring charges of $77 million.
 
Basic Plastics
 
Basic Plastics sales declined 38 percent to $2.17 billion compared with sales of $3.49 billion in the same period last year. Price decreased 15 percent, due in large part to rapidly declining hydrocarbon and energy prices. Volume was down 23 percent, reflecting the collapse in demand that took place in the quarter. Double-digit volume declines were reported in all geographic areas and across all polymer families. Volume was also negatively impacted by the shutdown of polypropylene capacity in St. Charles, Louisiana, in 2007; the sale of polyethylene assets in Cubato, Brazil in 2007; the joint venture formation of Americas Styrenics in May 2008; and the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Polyethylene reported stable demand in food and specialty packaging applications as the global economic downturn resulted in more in-home dining, while underlying demand for polypropylene was down due to global slowdowns in the housing and automotive sectors. Equity earnings/losses were a net loss of $54 million due to lower earnings at EQUATE, Equipolymers, and Siam Polyethylene. EBIT for the Basic Plastics segment was a loss of $315 million, which included restructuring charges of $148 million, a goodwill impairment loss of $30 million, and charges of $3 million related to the impact of the hurricanes. This compares with EBIT of $394 million in the year-ago period, which included restructuring charges of $88 million.
 
 
Basic Chemicals
 
Basic Chemicals sales for the quarter decreased 39 percent year over year to $992 million from $1.63 billion in 2007. Volume was down 33 percent, while price declined 6 percent. Double-digit volume declines were reported in all geographic areas. Compared with the same period last year, volume was lower due to the sale of the caustic soda business in Western Canada in December 2007.Caustic soda prices continued to benefit from ongoing favorable industry supply/demand fundamentals, while demand for vinyl chloride monomer used in polyvinylchloride (PVC) production declined further, as end-use applications for PVC, namely residential building and construction applications, remained extremely weak. Volumes were down substantially in the Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol (EO/EG) business due to unfavorable industry fundamentals, new capacity from Middle Eastern suppliers, and worsening demand for polyester fiber in Asia Pacific. Equity earnings/losses were a net loss of $20 million in the quarter, reflecting depressed operating results at MEGlobal, EQUATE and OPTIMAL. Fourth quarter EBIT was a loss of $237 million, which included restructuring charges of $103 million and charges of $15 million related to the impact of the two hurricanes. This compares with EBIT of $309 million in the same period last year, which included a restructuring charge of $7 million.
 
 
 
Review of Results for 2008
 
Dow reported record annual sales of $57.5 billion, 7 percent higher than last years record of $53.5 billion. Price increased 12 percent, with increases in every operating segment and in all geographic areas, principally due to higher feedstock and energy costs, which were up $5.9 billion compared with 2007.
 
Volume was down 5 percent, with declines in all geographic areas except India, Middle East and Africa, and in all segments except Agricultural Sciences, which reported a volume gain of 8 percent, and Hydrocarbons and Energy, which was up 5 percent.
 
Equity earnings declined to $787 million from $1.1 billion in 2007, reflecting the global demand destruction that took place in the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as the decline in global energy markets.
 
Net income for the year was $579 million, which included certain items with a net unfavorable impact of $1.1 billion. This compares with net income in 2007 of $2.9 billion, which included certain items with a net unfavorable impact of $735 million. (See Supplemental Information at the end of the release for a description of these items.)
 
Cash provided by operating activities was $4.7 billion in 2008, an improvement of more than $200 million versus 2007, despite deteriorating economic conditions.
 
At year-end, the funded status of the Companys defined benefit pension plans declined due to the reduction in global equity markets, resulting in an after-tax charge to equity of $3.3 billion.
 
Earnings per share were $0.62 in 2008 and $2.99 in 2007. Excluding certain items in both periods, earnings per share were $1.82 in 2008, down from $3.76 in 2007. (See Supplemental Information at the end of the release for a description of certain items.)
 
Commenting on the Companys outlook, Liveris said: As we enter 2009 we are assuming that the late 2008 demand levels will continue for several quarters and possibly beyond. Most of our value chains are running at very low inventory levels, and when a recovery begins, possibly through government stimuli in the back half of the year, the recovery could be rapid. 
Having said that, we are planning for a global recession throughout 2009 and will continue to take actions on managing our cash and controlling our costs with the same intensity that we demonstrated in the fourth quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
About Dow
 
With annual sales of $58 billion and 46,000 employees worldwide, Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the "Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company delivers a broad range of products and services to customers in around 160 countries, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. References to Dow or the Company mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted. More information about Dow can be found at
www.dow.com
 
Use of non-GAAP measures: Dows management believes that measures of income excluding certain items (non-GAAP measures) provide relevant and meaningful information to investors about the ongoing operating results of the Company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures are provided in the Supplemental Information tables.
 
Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
 
 
 
Supplemental Information
Description of Certain Items Affecting Results:
Fourth Quarters of 2008 and 2007
Results for the fourth quarter of 2008 were negatively impacted by the following items:
Results for the fourth quarter of 2007 were impacted by the following items:
Years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
In addition to the items described above for the fourth quarter of 2008, earnings for 2008 were unfavorably impacted by the following third quarter items:
 
 
In addition to the items described above for the fourth quarter of 2007, earnings for 2007 were unfavorably impacted by the following items:
A table showing the impact of these items by operating segment is included with the Operating Segments tables.
The following tables summarize the impact of certain items recorded in the three-month and twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and previously described in this section:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


