FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20090925170720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
The Dow Chemical Company (Dow or the Company) is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to reflect certain changes described below with respect to the financial information contained in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 20, 2009 (2008 Form 10-K). The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not an amendment to or restatement of the 2008 Form 10-K.
Noncontrolling Interests
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51. The Statement established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary and for deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The Statement was effective January 1, 2009 for the Company. The retrospective presentation and disclosure requirements outlined by SFAS No. 160 have been incorporated into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, 
 
The implementation of SFAS No. 160 revised all previous references to minority interests in the consolidated financial statements to noncontrolling interests, and resulted in the following changes:
 
Discontinued Operations
On June 30, 2009, the Company completed the sale of the Calcium Chloride business. The results of operations of the Calcium Chloride business have been reclassified as discontinued operations and are reflected as Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Change in Reportable Segments
Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the Company changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Companys organization resulting from the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company. In addition, the Company changed its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes from EBIT to EBITDA (which Dow defines as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization). EBITDA by operating segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses, except depreciation and amortization; items that principally apply to the Company as a whole are assigned to Corporate. The segment disclosures included in this Current Report on Form 8-K reflect the retrospective revision of the Companys reportable segments.
The following Items of the 2008 Form 10-K have been presented to retrospectively reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 160, the classification of the results of operations of the Calcium Chloride business as discontinued operations, and the change in reportable segments as described above, and are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K:
 
 
 
No other Items of the 2008 Form 10-K other than those identified above are being revised by this filing. Information in the 2008 Form 10-K is generally stated as of December 31, 2008 and this filing does not reflect any subsequent information or events other than the adoption of SFAS No. 160, the reporting of discontinued operations and the change in reportable segments described above. Without limiting the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the 2008 Form 10-K for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management. More current information is contained in the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 and other filings with the SEC. This Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the 2008 Form 10-K and such Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings. The Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings contain information regarding events, developments and updates to certain expectations of the Company that have occurred since the filing of the 2008 Form 10-K.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
                                                                                           
Exhibit No.
Description
23(a)           Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
23(b)           Analysis, Research & Planning Corporations Consent.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Dow Chemical Company:
We consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 17, 2009 (September 25, 2009 as to the effects of the retrospective adjustments disclosed in Notes A, T, and V), relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes explanatory paragraphs relating to the Companys involvement in litigation related to an agreement to acquire Rohm and Haas Company and relating to a change in method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158) appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K, in the following Registration Statements of The Dow Chemical Company:
 
  5
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company:
Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) hereby consents to the use of ARPCs name and the reference to ARPCs reports in this Current Report on Form 8-K of The Dow Chemical Company, and the incorporation by reference thereof in the following Registration Statements of The Dow Chemical Company:
 
 
 6
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
THE COMPANY
The Dow Chemical Company was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms Company or Dow as used herein mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. On February 6, 2001, the merger of Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide) with a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company was completed, and Union Carbide became a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow.
 
The Company is engaged in the manufacture and sale of chemicals, plastic materials, agricultural and other specialized products and services.
 
The Companys principal executive offices are located at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, Michigan 48674, telephone 989-636-1000. Its Internet website address is . All of the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge through the Investor Relations page on this website, immediately upon filing.
www.dow.com
BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS
Corporate Profile
Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company delivers a broad range of products and services to customers in approximately 160 countries, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. In 2008, Dow had annual sales of $57.4 billion and employed approximately 46,000 people worldwide. The Company has 150 manufacturing sites in 35 countries and produces approximately 3,300 products. On April 1, 2009, the Company acquired Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas). As a result of changes in the Companys organization resulting from the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, the Company changed its reportable segments in the second quarter of 2009. The financial information included herein reflects the retrospective revision of reportable segments for the Companys historical financial information only. The following descriptions of the Companys operating segments however include a representative listing of products for each business including the products acquired from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009.
ELECTRONIC AND SPECIALTY MATERIALS
chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) pads and slurries  chemical processing and intermediates  electronic displays  food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients  printed circuit board materials  semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing  water purification
Applications:
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization (CMP); materials used in the production of electronic displays; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications.
Electronic Materials
 
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals, food, home and personal care, water and energy production, and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for sufficient and clean water, air and energy, material preservation and improved healthcare, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. The businesses global footprint and geographic reach provide multiple opportunities for value growth. Specialty Materials consists of five global businesses: Dow Water and Process Solutions, Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Materials.
Specialty Materials
 
7
 
 
The Electronic and Specialty Materials segment also includes the Companys share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants  construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing)  flexible and rigid packaging  general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts  house and traffic paints  leather, textile, graphic arts and paper  metal coatings  processing aids for plastic production  tapes and labels
Applications:
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging and leather, textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support more environmentally preferred applications.
Adhesives and Functional Polymers
 
is comprised of two global businesses  Dow Building Solutions and Dow Construction Chemicals  which offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also addressing the industry's emerging needs and demands. Additionally, Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the businesses products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a buildings carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment.
Dow Building and Construction
 
 
8
 
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
Dow Coating Materials
 
HEALTH AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils  control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Applications
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management and food service.
Dow AgroSciences
 
The Health and Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS
: automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems  bedding  caps and closures  food and specialty packaging  footwear  furniture  gaskets and sealing components  manufactured housing and modular construction  medical equipment  mining  pipe treatment  pressure sensitive adhesives  transportation  vinyl exteriors  waterproofing membranes  wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Applications
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demand for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, more comfortable and stylish. The business provides plastics, adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, films, fluids, structural enhancement and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers, tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Automotive Systems
 
 
9
 
 
offers a unique set of elastomers, specialty films and plastic additive products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers, synthetic rubber, specialty resins, and films and plastic additives. Key applications include adhesives, transportation, building and construction, packaging and consumer durables.
Dow Elastomers
 
is the worlds leading provider of polymers, additives and specialty oil technology-based solutions for electrical and telecommunication applications. Through its suite of polyolefin ENDURANCE products, the business sets industry standards for assurance of longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. In addition to world-class power, telecommunications and flame retardant/specialty cable applications, the business supports its product offerings with solid research, product development, engineering and market validation expertise.
Dow Wire and Cable
 
The business manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
Formulated Systems
 
The Performance Systems segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry, and Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance.
PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS
: adhesives  aircraft and runway deicing fluids  appliances  carpeting  chelating agents  chemical intermediates  civil engineering  cleaning products  coated paper and paperboard  composites  construction  corrosion inhibitors  detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners  electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling  electrical laminates  electronics  flavors and fragrances  flooring  footwear  gas treatment  heat transfer fluids  home and office furnishings  industrial coatings  mattresses  metalworking fluids  packaging  sealants  surfactants
Applications
The business is the worlds largest producer of ethanolamines, ethyleneamines and isopropanolamines used in a wide variety of applications, including gas treatment, heavy-duty liquid detergents, herbicide formulations for the agricultural industry and personal care products.
Amines
 
 
10
 
The business provides a broad line of styrene-butadiene products supporting customers in paper and paperboard applications, as well as carpet and artificial turf backings.
Emulsion Polymers
 
The business is the worlds largest producer of epoxy resins and intermediates. The business is the most feedstock-integrated supplier in the world. Epoxies provide good adhesion and coating protection over a range of environmental conditions, making them ideal for applications such as transportation, marine and civil engineering.
Epoxy
 
The business offers a full range of acetone derivatives, alcohols, esters, and ethylene- and propylene-based glycol ether products. The business is the industry leader in solvent products used in cleaning products, inks, electronics, mining, paints and coatings, personal care and other applications.
Oxygenated Solvents
 
The business is one of the worlds leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
Performance Fluids, Polyglycols and Surfactants
 
The business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
Performance Monomers
 
The business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dows polyurethane products are used in a broad range of applications including appliance, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture and shoe soles.
Polyurethanes
 
The Performance Products segment also includes the results of Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries, and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the OPTIMAL Group of Companies and the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
BASIC PLASTICS
: adhesives  appliances and appliance housings  agricultural films  automotive parts and trim  beverage bottles  bins, crates, pails and pallets  building and construction  coatings  consumer and durable goods  consumer electronics  disposable diaper liners  fibers and nonwovens  films, bags and packaging for food and consumer products  hoses and tubing  household and industrial bottles  housewares  hygiene and medical films  industrial and
Applications
 
11
 
 
consumer films and foams  information technology  oil tanks and road equipment  plastic pipe  textiles  toys, playground equipment and recreational products  wire and cable compounds
The business is the worlds leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industrys broadest ranges of polyethylene resins.
Polyethylene
 
The business, a major global polypropylene supplier, provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dows leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
Polypropylene
 
The business, the global leader in the production of polystyrene resins, is uniquely positioned with geographic breadth and participation in a diversified portfolio of applications. Through market and technical leadership and low cost capability, the business continues to improve product performance and meet customer needs.
Styrenics
 
The Basic Plastics segment also includes the results of the Basic Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business and the Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends business. It also includes the results of Equipolymers, Americas Styrenics LLC and Univation Technologies (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
BASIC CHEMICALS
: agricultural products  alumina  automotive antifreeze and coolant systems  carpet and textiles  chemical processing  dry cleaning  household cleaners and plastic products  inks  metal cleaning  packaging, food and beverage containers   paints, coatings and adhesives  personal care products  petroleum refining  pharmaceuticals  plastic pipe  protective packaging  pulp and paper manufacturing  soaps and detergents  water treatment
Applications
The business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by downstream Dow derivatives, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents and building and construction. Dow is the worlds largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
 
The business is the worlds largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dows downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
 
The Basic Chemicals segment also includes the results of the Chlorinated Organics business. Also included in the Basic Chemicals segment are the results of MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. and the OPTIMAL Group of Companies, all joint ventures of the Company.
 
12
 
HYDROCARBONS AND ENERGY
: polymer and chemical production  power
Applications
The business encompasses the procurement of fuels, natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, power and steam principally for use in Dows global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
Hydrocarbons and Energy
 
The Hydrocarbons and Energy segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A. and a portion of the results of the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst activities; the Companys insurance operations and environmental operations; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments.
Corporate
Industry Segments and Geographic Area Results
See Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information by operating segment and geographic area.
Number of Products
Dow manufactures and supplies approximately 3,300 products. No single product accounted for more than 5 percent of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2008.
Competition
Historically, the chemical industry has operated in a competitive environment, and that environment is expected to continue. The Company experiences substantial competition in each of its operating segments and in each of the geographic areas in which it operates. In addition to other chemical companies, the chemical divisions of major international oil companies provide substantial competition in the United States and abroad. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of quality, price and customer service, and for 2008, continued to be the largest U.S. producer of chemicals and plastics, in terms of sales.
Raw Materials
The Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed through many stages to produce a number of products that are sold as finished goods at various points in those processes.
 
The two major raw material streams that feed the integrated production of the Companys finished goods are chlorine-based and hydrocarbon-based raw materials.
 
Salt, limestone and natural brine are the base raw materials used in the production of chlor-alkali products and derivatives. The Company owns salt deposits in Louisiana, Michigan and Texas; Alberta, Canada; Brazil; and Germany. The Company also owns natural brine deposits in Michigan and limestone deposits in Texas.
 
The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including liquefied petroleum gases, crude oil, naphtha, natural gas and condensate. These raw materials are used in the production of both saleable products and energy. The Company also purchases electric power, benzene, ethylene, propylene and styrene to supplement internal production. Expenditures for hydrocarbon feedstocks and energy accounted for 48 percent of the Companys production costs and operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company purchases these raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts.
 
Other significant raw materials include acrylonitrile, aniline, bisphenol, co-monomers (for linear low density polyethylene), methanol, rubber, carbon black, ammonia, formaldehyde and toluene diamine. The Company purchases these raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts.
 
The Company had adequate supplies of raw materials during 2008, and expects to continue to have adequate supplies of raw materials in 2009.
 
13
 
 
Method of Distribution
All products and services are marketed primarily through the Companys sales force, although in some instances more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors.
 
Twenty-six percent of the sales of the Basic Chemicals segment in 2008 were to one customer, with which the Company has an ongoing supply contract. In addition, sales to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture with Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) of Kuwait, represented approximately 14 percent of the sales in the Basic Chemicals segment. Excess ethylene glycol produced in Dows plants in the United States and Europe is sold to MEGlobal. Other than the sales to these customers, no significant portion of the business of any operating segment is dependent upon a single customer.
Research and Development
The Company is engaged in a continuous program of basic and applied research to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes, and to develop new applications for existing products. Research and development expenses were $1,310 million in 2008, $1,305 million in 2007 and $1,164 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, the Company employed approximately 6,000 people in various research and development activities.
Patents, Licenses and Trademarks
The Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents. At December 31, 2008, the Company owned 2,266 active U.S. patents and 9,478 active foreign patents as follows:
Dows primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is also party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. The Company had revenue related to patent and technology royalties totaling $307 million in 2008, $247 million in 2007 and $512 million in 2006. Revenue related to licensing was higher in 2006 due to lump sum licensing revenue that was earned in the first quarter of 2006. The Company incurred royalties to others of $60 million in 2008, $57 million in 2007 and $64 million in 2006. Dow also has a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, including the Dow in Diamond trademark. Although the Company considers that its patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent upon any single patent, license or trademark.
Principal Partly Owned Companies
Dows principal nonconsolidated affiliates at December 31, 2008, including direct or indirect ownership interest for each, are listed below:
 
 
14
 
See Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
In 2008, the Company derived 68 percent of its sales and had 47 percent of its property investment outside the United States. While the Companys international operations may be subject to a number of additional risks, such as changes in currency exchange rates, the Company does not regard its foreign operations, on the whole, as carrying any greater risk than its operations in the United States. Information on sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for each of the last three years appears in Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and discussions of the Companys risk management program for foreign exchange and interest rate risk management appear in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (2008 Form 10-K), and Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Protection of the Environment
Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes A and K to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employees
Personnel count was 46,102 at December 31, 2008; 45,856 at December 31, 2007; and 42,578 at December 31, 2006. Headcount increased in 2008 from year-end 2007 primarily due to recent acquisitions. Headcount is expected to decline due to actions announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 to eliminate approximately 5,000 jobs (including planned divestitures). During 2007, headcount was impacted by the addition of research and development employees in India and China in support of the Companys growth initiatives; the addition of approximately 110 employees with the second quarter acquisition of Hyperlast Limited; and the addition of approximately 1,700 employees with the second quarter acquisition of Wolff Walsrode AG.
Other Activities
Dow engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
 
17
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries (Dow or the Company). This section covers the current performance and outlook of the Company and each of its operating segments. The forward-looking statements contained in this section and in other parts of this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as more fully discussed elsewhere and in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
ABOUT DOW
Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company offers a broad range of products and services, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. Dow is the largest U.S. producer of chemicals and plastics, in terms of sales, with total sales of $57.4 billion in 2008. On April 1, 2009, the Company acquired Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas). As a result of changes in the Companys organization resulting from the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, the Company changed its reportable segments in the second quarter of 2009. The new reportable operating segments are: Electronic and Specialty Materials, Coatings and Infrastructure, Health and Agricultural Sciences, Performance Systems, Performance Products, Basic Plastics, Basic Chemicals, and Hydrocarbons and Energy. The change in segments is reflected in the information below.
 
18
 
In 2008, the Company sold its approximately 3,300 products and its services to customers in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. Thirty-six percent of the Companys sales were to customers in North America; 38 percent were in Europe; while the remaining 26 percent were to customers in Asia Pacific and Latin America. The Company employs approximately 46,000 people and has a broad, global reach with 150 manufacturing sites in 35 countries.
2008 OVERVIEW
Significant challenges were presented to Dow and the chemical industry as a whole in 2008. The first half of the year was characterized by rising feedstock and energy costs, coupled with continued economic weakness in the United States, particularly in the automotive and residential construction sectors. The latter half of the year was marked by the escalation of a global financial crisis, the landfall of two major hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast, and the sharp deterioration of the global economic environment. Consequently, in the fourth quarter of the year, the industry saw substantially lower end-market demand and steep inventory de-stocking across most value chains. In response, Dow shut down or idled capacity and took measures to manage costs and preserve cash, consistent with its commitment to financial discipline.
 
Dows sales increased 7 percent to $57.4 billion, setting a new sales record for the Company, as a 12 percent increase in prices outweighed a 5 percent decline in volume. Volatile feedstock and energy costs presented a significant challenge during the year, which the Company reacted to with responsive price and volume management, including the implementation of two broad-based pricing initiatives in the middle of the year. The Companys purchased feedstock and energy costs increased $5.9 billion (28 percent) compared with 2007, making this the sixth consecutive year of double-digit percentage increases in feedstock and energy costs.
 
The combined Performance segments (Electronic and Specialty Materials, Coatings and Infrastructure, Health and Agricultural Sciences, Performance Systems and Performance Products) mitigated rising raw material costs with higher prices across all operating segments, offsetting a decline in volume that was predominantly driven by weakness in the fourth quarter. The Health and Agricultural Sciences segment had an exceptional year, setting new records for both sales and earnings. Dows combined Basics segments (Basic Plastics, Basic Chemicals, and Hydrocarbons and Energy) swiftly enacted measures in the face of volatile feedstock and energy costs. These actions led to double-digit percent price increases, which helped mitigate declining volumes. In addition, the benefit of Dows strategic decision to invest for growth through joint ventures was again reflected in this years results, with Dows equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates totaling $787 million.
 
Overall, Dows focus on price and volume management, control of discretionary spending and capital expenditures, and active portfolio management helped to partially offset deteriorating results in a challenging economic environment. Capital expenditures were $2.3 billion, above the level of depreciation but in line with the target for the year. Working capital fell $3.3 billion compared with year-end 2007 due in part to a decline in fourth quarter sales and inventories as the Company reduced operating rates in the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company ended the year with $2.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents and reported strong cash flow from operating activities of $4.7 billion. Despite the difficult economic conditions in the latter part of the year, the Company had sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its business obligations.
 
In 2008, the Company continued its effort to implement its strategy, which is designed to reduce earnings cyclicality and improve earnings growth by increasing investment in the Performance businesses, maintaining integration with the Basics businesses, and growing the Basics businesses through cost-advantaged joint ventures. Actions taken during 2008 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Looking to 2009, there are growing signs of a prolonged global economic slowdown, with growth rates in developed economies in North America and Europe projected to remain weak well into the first half of the year and possibly continuing for the entire year. With approximately two-thirds of its sales outside the United States, Dows global reach is expected to enable it to continue to capture opportunities in developing regions, such as Brazil, India and China, where growth rates are projected to be more positive than in the developed world, although not nearly as strong as in 2008. As the Company continues to implement its strategy in a volatile global economic environment, its focus will remain on financial discipline, with an emphasis on cash preservation measures to ensure financial flexibility.
 
Dows results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2008 are described in further detail in the following discussion and analysis.
 
 
20
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Dow reported record sales of $57.4 billion in 2008, up 7 percent from $53.4 billion in 2007 and up 17 percent from $49.0 billion in 2006. Compared with last year, prices rose 12 percent (with currency accounting for approximately 3 percent of the increase), with increases in all operating segments and in all geographic areas. In 2008, double-digit price increases were reported in all operating segments except Electronic and Specialty Materials (which was up 8 percent) and Coatings and Infrastructure (which was up 5 percent), driven by continuing increases in feedstock and energy costs. In 2008, volume declined 5 percent from last year, with volume changes mixed among the segments. Through the first half of the year, volume improved 3 percent overall despite a 5 percent decline in the United States, but fell in the second half and most notably in the fourth quarter as global demand collapsed. From a geographic standpoint, 2008 volume was down in all geographic areas, except India, Middle East and Africa (IMEA), which was up 3 percent from 2007. The most significant volume decline was in the United States, which ended the year down 11 percent from 2007.
 
In 2007, sales rose 9 percent, as prices rose 7 percent, with increases in all operating segments and in all geographic areas. In 2007, the most significant price increases were reported in Basic Plastics and Hydrocarbons and Energy, driven by continuing increases in feedstock and energy costs. Volume improved 2 percent in 2007, with growth in all segments with the exception of a decline in Basic Chemicals and a slight decline in Coatings and Infrastructure. From a geographic standpoint, 2007 volume in the United States was down slightly from 2006, due in part to weakness in the housing and automotive industries, while Europe and the rest of the world reported significant volume growth. Growth was strong in Asia Pacific, up 8 percent from 2006, and in Latin America, up 7 percent.
 
Sales in the United States accounted for 32 percent of total sales in 2008, compared with 34 percent in 2007 and 37 percent in 2006. See the Sales Price and Volume table at the end of the section titled Segment Results for details regarding the change in sales by operating segment and geographic area. In addition, sales and other information by operating segment and geographic area are provided in Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Gross margin for 2008 was $5.4 billion, compared with $7.1 billion in 2007 and $7.6 billion in 2006. Despite the $6.8 billion impact of higher selling prices, gross margin declined compared with 2007, due to an increase of $5.9 billion in feedstock and energy costs, lower sales volume, higher costs of other raw materials, significantly reduced operating rates and the unfavorable impact of currency on costs. Gross margin was also impacted by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast, resulting in temporary outages for several of the Companys Gulf Coast production facilities and resulting in $181 million in additional manufacturing expenses including the repair of property damage, clean-up costs, unabsorbed fixed costs and inventory write-offs. In addition, gross margin was reduced by legal expenses and other costs of $69 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the K-Dow transaction; these costs were expensed (to Cost of sales) upon PICs refusal to close the K-Dow transaction (reflected in Corporate). In 2007, gross margin declined compared with 2006, due to an increase of $2.5 billion in feedstock and energy costs, higher costs of other raw materials, the unfavorable impact of currency on costs and increased freight costs.
 
Dows global plant operating rate (for its chemicals and plastics businesses) was 77 percent of capacity in 2008, down from 87 percent of capacity in 2007 and 85 percent of capacity in 2006. Operating rates declined across the businesses in 2008, particularly in the second half of the year, impacted by actions taken by management in response to lower demand resulting from the slowing global economy, as well as by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast in the third quarter of 2008. In 2007, operating rates improved compared with 2006 for most of the Companys businesses, reflecting a higher level of demand and the closure of some of the Companys manufacturing facilities. Depreciation expense was $2,016 million in 2008, $1,959 million in 2007 and $1,904 million in 2006.
 
Personnel count was 46,102 at December 31, 2008, 45,856 at December 31, 2007 and 42,578 at December 31, 2006. Headcount increased slightly in 2008 from year-end 2007 primarily due to recent acquisitions. Headcount is expected to decline due to actions announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 to eliminate approximately 5,000 jobs (including planned divestitures). During 2007, headcount was impacted by the addition of research and development employees in India and China in support of the Companys growth initiatives; the addition of approximately 110 employees with the second quarter acquisition of Hyperlast Limited; and the addition of approximately 1,700 employees with the second quarter acquisition of Wolff Walsrode.
 
Operating expenses (research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses) totaled $3,276 million in 2008, up 3 percent from $3,166 million in 2007. Operating expenses were $2,824 million in 2006. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $1,310 million in 2008, compared with $1,305 million in 2007 and $1,164 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,966 million in 2008, compared with $1,861 million in 2007 and $1,660 million in 2006. In 2008, the increase in operating expenses was primarily related to planned spending for growth
 
21
 
 
initiatives in the Performance businesses and operating expenses for new acquisitions. In 2007, consistent with the Companys strategy, approximately 75 percent of the increase in operating expenses was related to spending for growth initiatives and product development in the Performance businesses, including expenses related to the 2007 acquisition of Wolff Walsrode and Hyperlast Limited, and for early stage research into new growth opportunities. The balance of the increase in 2007 was related to the global expansion of the Companys corporate branding campaign and other corporate expenses. Operating expenses were 5.7 percent of sales in 2008, 5.9 percent of sales in 2007 and 5.8 percent of sales in 2006.
 
The following table illustrates the relative size of the primary components of total production costs and operating expenses of Dow. More information about each of these components can be found in other sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
Amortization of intangibles was $92 million in 2008, $72 million in 2007 and $50 million in 2006. Amortization of intangibles was up in 2008 due to several small acquisitions in 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that goodwill associated with the Automotive Systems and Polypropylene reporting units was impaired. The impairment was based on a review performed by management in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill. The Company recorded pretax charges totaling $239 million for goodwill impairment losses including $209 million for the Automotive Systems reporting unit (impacting the Performance Systems segment) and $30 million for the Polypropylene reporting unit (impacting the Basic Plastics segment). See Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets.
 
On December 5, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan as part of a series of actions to advance the Companys strategy and respond to the recent, severe economic downturn. The restructuring plan includes the shutdown of a number of facilities and a global workforce reduction, which are targeted for completion by the end of 2010. As a result of the shutdowns and global workforce reduction, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $785 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $336 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $128 million and severance costs of $321 million. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as follows: $10 million in Electronic and Specialty Materials, $16 million in Coatings and Infrastructure, $68 million in Performance Systems, $39 million in Performance Products, $98 million in Basic Plastics, $106 million in Basic Chemicals, $18 million in Hydrocarbons and Energy, and $430 million in Corporate. In addition to the charges related to the 2008 restructuring plan, the Company also recorded additional pretax charges of $60 million related to the 2007 restructuring plan, primarily impacting the Basic Plastics segment, and a reduction of $6 million related to the 2006 restructuring plan. When the 2008 restructuring plan has been fully implemented, the Company expects to realize ongoing annual savings of approximately $700 million. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the restructuring charges.
 
On December 3, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan that included the shutdown of a number of assets and organizational changes within targeted support functions to improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the Companys global operations. As a result of these shutdowns and organizational changes, which are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2009, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges totaling $590 million in 2007. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $422 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $82 million and severance costs of $86 million. The charges were reflected in the Companys segment results as follows: $27 million in Electronic and Specialty Materials, $20 million in Coatings and Infrastructure, $77 million in Health and Agricultural Sciences, $155 million in Performance Systems, $59 million in Performance Products, $96 million in Basic
 
22
 
Plastics, $7 million in Basic Chemicals, $44 million in Hydrocarbons and Energy, and $105 million in Corporate. In 2007, the Company also recorded a $12 million reduction of the 2006 restructuring charges, which included an $8 million reduction of the estimated severance costs (included in Corporate) and a $4 million reduction of the reserve for contract termination fees (included in Performance Products). When the 2007 restructuring plan has been fully implemented, the Company expects to realize ongoing annual savings of approximately $180 million. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the restructuring charges.
 
On August 29, 2006, the Companys Board of Directors approved a plan to shut down a number of assets around the world as the Company continued its drive to improve the competitiveness of its global operations. As a consequence of these shutdowns, which are scheduled to be completed at the end of the first quarter of 2009, and other optimization activities, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges totaling $591 million in 2006. The charges included asset write-downs and write-offs of $346 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $172 million and severance costs of $73 million. The charges were shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and were reflected in the Companys segment results as follows: $5 million in Coatings and Infrastructure, $4 million in Performance Systems, $265 million in Performance Products, $16 million in Basic Plastics, $155 million in Basic Chemicals, and $146 million in Corporate. When the 2006 restructuring plan has been fully implemented, the Company expects to realize ongoing annual savings of approximately $160 million. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the restructuring charges.
 
During 2008, pretax charges totaling $44 million were recorded for purchased in-process research and development (IPR&D) impacting the Health and Agricultural Sciences segment. Purchased IPR&D in 2007 amounted to $57 million in pretax charges; $50 million was related to acquisitions within the Health and Agricultural Sciences segment and $7 million was related to the acquisition of Wolff Walsrode on June 30, 2007 and impacted the results of the Electronic and Specialty Materials segment. Future costs required to bring the purchased IPR&D projects to technological feasibility are expected to be immaterial. See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding these charges.
 
During 2008, pretax charges totaling $49 million were recorded for legal expenses and other transaction costs related to the pending acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company; these charges are reflected in Corporate. These charges were expensed in anticipation of a 2009 closing of the acquisition and the application of revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, 
Business Combinations.
 
Following the December 2008 completion of a study to review Union Carbides asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims (excluding future defense and processing costs) by $54 million. The reduction was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the results of Corporate. In 2006, following the December 2006 completion of a study to review Union Carbides asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims (excluding future defense and processing costs) by $177 million. See Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding asbestos-related matters of Union Carbide.
 
Dows share of the earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates in 2008 was $787 million, compared with $1,122 million in 2007 and $959 million in 2006. Equity earnings declined compared with 2007, reflecting volatile feedstock and energy costs in 2008 and the collapse in global demand that took place in the fourth quarter of 2008. Equity earnings for 2008 reflected decreased earnings from MEGlobal, EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. (EQUATE), Equipolymers and Siam Polyethylene Company Limited (Siam Polyethylene); partially offset by increased earnings from Dow Corning Corporation and the OPTIMAL Group of Companies (OPTIMAL). Equity earnings in 2007 exceeded $1 billion for the first time in the Companys history, reflecting increased earnings from EQUATE, MEGlobal and OPTIMAL. See Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on nonconsolidated affiliates.
 
Sundry income - net includes a variety of income and expense items such as the gain or loss on foreign currency exchange, dividends from investments, and gains and losses on sales of investments and assets. Sundry income for 2008 was $89 million, down from $324 million in 2007 and $137 million in 2006. In 2008, net sundry income reflected unfavorable foreign exchange hedging results and a decrease in net gains on the sale of assets. In 2007, net sundry income reflected the impact of favorable foreign exchange hedging results and gains on the sale of miscellaneous assets. In 2006, sundry income was reduced by the recognition of a loss contingency of $85 million (reflected in the Performance Systems segment) related to a fine imposed by the European Commission (EC) associated with synthetic rubber industry matters (see Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).
 
Net interest expense (interest expense less capitalized interest and interest income) was $562 million in 2008, up from $454 million in 2007 and $431 million in 2006. Interest income was $86 million in 2008, down from $130 million in 2007 and $185 million in 2006 principally due to lower interest rates on investments. Interest expense (net of capitalized interest) and amortization of debt discount totaled $648 million in 2008, $584 million in 2007 and $616 million in 2006. Interest expense increased due to an increased level of debt, throughout 2008 compared with 2007.
 
23
 
 
The provision for income taxes was $651 million in 2008, compared with $1,230 million in 2007 and $1,142 million in 2006. The Companys effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned and the level of income relative to tax credits available. For example, as the percentage of foreign sourced income increases, the Companys effective tax rate declines. The Companys tax rate is also influenced by the level of equity earnings, since most of the earnings from the Companys equity companies are taxed at the joint venture level. In 2008, the effective tax rate was 51.0 percent compared with 29.3 percent in 2007 and 23.1 percent in 2006. In addition to the above factors, the tax rate for 2008 was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment losses that are not deductible for tax purposes. The tax rate for 2007 was negatively impacted by a change in German tax law that was enacted in August 2007 and included a reduction in the German income tax rate. As a result of the change, the Company adjusted the value of its net deferred tax assets in Germany (using the lower tax rate) and recorded a charge of $362 million against the Provision for income taxes in the third quarter of 2007. Also in 2007, the Company changed the legal ownership structure of its investment in EQUATE, resulting in a favorable impact to the Provision for income taxes of $113 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate was 23.4 percent in 2007.
 
Based on tax strategies developed in Brazil during 2006, as well as projections of future earnings, it was determined that it was more likely than not that tax loss carryforwards would be utilized, resulting in a reversal of existing valuation allowances of $63 million. This impact, combined with strong financial results in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States, enacted reductions in the tax rates in Canada and The Netherlands, and improved earnings from a number of the Companys joint ventures, resulted in an effective tax rate for 2006 that was lower than the U.S. statutory rate. Excluding the reversal of the valuation allowances in 2006, the effective tax rate for 2006 was 24.4 percent. The underlying factors affecting Dows overall effective tax rates are summarized in Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
On June 30, 2009, the Company sold the Calcium Chloride business. The results of operations related to the Calcium Chloride business have been reclassified and reported as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. Income from discontinued operations (net of income taxes) for 2008 was $28 million ($0.03 per share), compared with $23 million ($0.02 per share) in 2007 and $21 million ($0.02 per share) in 2006.
 
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $75 million in 2008, $98 million in 2007 and $93 million in 2006. The decline in 2008 was related to the third quarter 2008 redemption by the outside partner of its ownership interest in Hobbes Capital S.A. (see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
Net income attributable to The Dow Chemical Company was $579 million in 2008 ($0.62 per share) compared with $2,887 million in 2007 ($2.99 per share) and $3,724 million in 2006 ($3.82 per share).
The following table summarizes the impact of certain items recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006:
 
24
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
Effective in the second quarter of 2009, the Company changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Companys organization resulting from the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas. In addition, the Company changed its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes from EBIT to EBITDA (which Dow defines as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization). EBITDA by operating segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses, except depreciation and amortization; items that principally apply to the Company as a whole are assigned to Corporate. See Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements for depreciation and amortization by segment as well as a reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes. The new reportable segments and the new measure of profit/loss for segment reporting are reflected below.
ELECTRONIC AND SPECIALTY MATERIALS
Electronic and Specialty Materials sales increased 27 percent to $2,620 million in 2008, compared with $2,071 million in 2007; sales were $1,684 million in 2006. Compared with 2007, volume increased 19 percent and prices increased 8 percent including a 3 percent favorable currency impact. The improvement in volume was driven by the full-year impact of the 2007 acquisition of Wolff Walsrode. The increase in prices in 2008 was driven by higher raw material costs. EBITDA for 2008 was $835 million, compared with $737 million in 2007 and $756 million in 2006. EBITDA increased in 2008 due to higher sales volume and increased equity earnings from Dow Corning Corporation. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $10 million related to the closure of two manufacturing assets and $2 million of hurricane-related costs. In 2007, EBITDA declined as higher raw material and energy costs more than offset higher selling prices. In addition, EBITDA in 2007 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $27 million and a $7 million charge for IPR&D related to the acquisition of Wolff Walsrode. (See Notes B and C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on restructuring charges and IPR&D.)
 
Specialty Materials sales increased 27 percent versus 2007, with volume growth of 20 percent and price increases of 7 percent including a 3 percent favorable impact of currency. The improvement in volume was driven by the full-year impact of the 2007 acquisition of Wolff Walsrode and strong sales of methyl cellulosics used in pharmaceutical and food applications. Benefiting from the membrane production capacity start-up in Edina, Minnesota, volume improved in Dow Water and Process Solutions, particularly in the reverse osmosis and ion exchange water applications. Compared with 2007, EBITDA improved as higher sales more than offset higher raw material costs and higher operating expenses. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $10 million related to the permanent closure of a pharmaceutical plant in Midland, Michigan and a manufacturing plant in Plaquemine, Louisiana, and $2 million for hurricane-related costs. EBITDA for 2007 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $27 million related to the permanent closure of the cellulosics plant in Aratu, Brazil, and the shutdown of a second small pharmaceutical plant in Midland, Michigan, as well as a $7 million IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Wolff Walsrode.
Electronic and Specialty Materials Outlook for 2009
Specialty Materials sales are expected to decrease slightly. An anticipated increase in sales of METHOCEL cellulose ethers used in food, pharmaceuticals and personal care products is expected to be partially offset by a decrease in sales of methyl cellulosics used in the construction industry. Sales of specialty polymers, biocides, and the specialty chemical products of ANGUS Chemical Company are expected to decrease, while Dow Water and Process Solutions sales are expected to be flat versus 2008.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Coatings and Infrastructure sales increased 45 percent to $2,654 million in 2008, compared with $1,836 million in 2007; sales were $1,797 million in 2006. Compared with 2007, volume increased 40 percent and prices increased 5 percent primarily due to a favorable currency impact. The improvement in volume was primarily due to the formation of the Dow Coating Materials business where sales were previously included in Epoxy. EBITDA for 2008 was $134 million, compared with $51 million in 2007 and $136 million in 2006. EBITDA increased in 2008 due to higher sales volume. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $16 million related to the closure of several manufacturing assets announced in fourth quarter. In 2007, EBITDA declined as higher raw material and energy costs more than offset higher selling prices. In addition, EBITDA in 2007 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $20 million. (See Notes B and C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on restructuring charges and IPR&D.)
 
25
 
 
Dow Building and Construction sales for 2008 were up slightly versus the prior year due to a 1 percent improvement in volume. Prices were flat versus 2007 as a 4 percent decline in prices was offset by a 4 percent favorable currency impact. Results for the business were heavily impacted by the financial crisis in North America, resulting in a decline in demand for building and construction materials in 2008. EBITDA in 2008 was negatively impacted by restructuring charges of $13 million associated with the closure of three manufacturing plants. Compared with 2007, EBITDA for 2008 was down due to sharply higher hydrocarbon and raw material costs in the first half of the year and the significant economic downturn in the second half of the year. EBITDA for 2007 was reduced by $20 million of restructuring charges related to the closure of five small manufacturing plants.
 
Dow Coating Materials sales increased primarily due to the formation of this business; sales were previously included in Epoxy; it was impracticable to restate the sales prior to the formation of this business. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by a restructuring charge of $3 million associated with the closure of a specialty latex manufacturing plant in Xiaolan, China.
Coatings and Infrastructure Outlook for 2009
Dow Building and Construction expects sales volume to decline in 2009 due to the expanding effects of the global economic crisis. The construction industry in general is not expected to improve before late in 2009. North American producers of extruded polystyrene foam are required by the Montreal Protocol to have new foaming agent formulations implemented by year end 2009. This will result in manufacturers incurring additional costs and capital spending in 2009. The process of converting the various manufacturing plants is expected to reduce North American production capacity. Further, it is expected that some capacity will be permanently shut down as manufacturers decide not to invest in the foaming agent conversion. Dow Building and Construction has previously announced its decision to shut down three extruded polystyrene plants by the end of 2009.
 
Dow Coating Materials sales are expected to decrease due to the continued slowdown in the housing industry, impacting demand for both architectural and industrial coatings. Significant pressure on pricing is expected as raw material costs decline and demand further weakens.
HEALTH AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Sales for Health and Agricultural Sciences were a record $4,535 million in 2008, compared with $3,779 million in 2007 and $3,399 million in 2006. Volume increased 8 percent compared with 2007, while prices increased 12 percent. Sales were up significantly across the segment due to favorable economic conditions within the agricultural industry and strong demand for agricultural products in 2008. Compared with last year, prices increased in response to strong demand, escalating raw material costs and tight global supply of certain products. Volume for seeds, traits and oils grew 33 percent year over year; corn grew 29 percent and sunflower grew 74 percent. Six new acquisitions were completed in 2008, as Dow AgroSciences continued to increase scale and reach in the seeds industry. Volumes for new agricultural chemicals products, penoxsulam rice herbicide and aminopyralid range and pasture herbicide, continued to show strong growth, almost doubling year-over-year sales. High commodity prices and excellent growing conditions across Europe and North America drove strong sales of proprietary herbicides. New cereal herbicide pyroxsulam also benefited, having a strong and successful launch, and together with spinetoram insecticide received excellent customer support in their first full year of launch. Commodity products, glyphosate and acetochlor herbicides, as well as chlorpyrifos insecticides, also experienced solid year-over-year growth.
 
In 2007, volume increased 9 percent over 2006, while prices increased 2 percent. Volume increased as demand for cereal and corn applications grew, while spinosad and chlorpyrifos insecticides benefited from a mild winter and early spring in Europe. The increase in price was primarily driven by the favorable impact of currency which offset local currency price decreases associated with generic competition.
 
EBITDA in 2008 was $872 million, a new annual record, versus $576 million in 2007 and $528 million in 2006. Despite an increase in raw material costs and operating expense (in support of growth initiatives), EBITDA for 2008 improved significantly due to the increase in sales, the result of the buoyant agricultural market and new product launches. EBITDA in 2008 was negatively impacted by $44 million of IPR&D costs related to seed acquisitions, $3 million in restructuring charges, as well as a $2 million impact related to the 2008 hurricanes. In 2007 EBITDA increased from 2006 on strong demand related to high farm commodity prices and increased acres planted, economic stability across Latin America and marked improvement in the seeds business. EBITDA in 2007 was negatively impacted by $77 million of restructuring charges primarily related to the impairment of the Companys manufacturing site in Lauterbourg, France, and by $50 million of IPR&D charges related to acquisitions.
 
26
 
Health and Agricultural Sciences Outlook for 2009
Health and Agricultural Sciences sales for 2009 are expected to grow above the levels achieved in 2008. Volume is anticipated to increase in key regions; however growth may be dampened by current economic conditions and as lower farm commodity prices impact global demand and grower confidence. New products sales of pyroxsulam, spinetoram, penoxsulam and aminopyralid are expected to ramp up in 2009, and HERCULEX insect protection is expanding into Brazil. Investments in technology, scale and reach in the seeds, traits and oils business remain a priority.
PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS
Performance Systems sales were $7,540 million in 2008, up from $6,597 million in 2007 and $5,685 million in 2006. Compared with 2007, sales increased 14 percent as prices rose 12 percent, including a 4 percent favorable impact of currency, and volume increased 2 percent. The improvement in prices was broad-based with increases in all geographic areas. In 2007, prices increased 6 percent over 2006 and volume improved 10 percent.
 
EBITDA for 2008 was $235 million, compared with $624 million in 2007 and $752 million in 2006. Results for 2008 were negatively impacted by a goodwill impairment loss of $209 million, costs of $6 million related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes, and restructuring charges of $70 million related to the closure or impairment of several manufacturing facilities announced in the fourth quarter. Despite the improvement in prices, EBITDA for 2008 declined from 2007 due to reduced operating rates across the Companys manufacturing facilities, significant increases in feedstock and energy and other raw material costs, and the unfavorable impact of currency on costs.
 
Results for 2007 were negatively impacted by net restructuring charges of $155 million related to the fourth quarter of 2007 announced closure or impairment of a number of manufacturing facilities. EBITDA for 2007 declined from 2006 primarily due to lump sum technology licensing revenue realized in 2006 that did not recur in 2007 and an increase in operating expenses related to the Companys efforts to expand geographic markets and develop new technologies and product applications within the Performance Systems segment. EBITDA for 2006 included a fine of $85 million imposed by the European Commission associated with the synthetic rubber industry matter and $4 million of restructuring charges as part of the plan announced by the Company in the third quarter of 2006. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges.
 
Automotive Systems sales for 2008 declined 1 percent from 2007, as a 10 percent improvement in price was more than offset by an 11 percent decline in volume, driven by a severe downturn in the global automotive industry. During 2008, the business worked to restore margins compressed by higher raw material costs and was successful in raising prices across all geographic areas. The decline in volume was most significant in North America where a weak economy and a drop in consumer confidence, coupled with tight credit markets, limited demand. Automotive manufacturers took action in the fourth quarter to reduce inventories and preserve cash, driving demand further downward for the year. Due to the significant downturn across the industry, when the Company performed its annual review of goodwill in the fourth quarter, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Automotive Systems reporting unit was impaired, resulting in a charge of $209 million. In addition, the Company announced a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2008 that included a charge of $27 million for impairment of the automotive sealants business in Europe, which will be divested in the first quarter of 2009. EBITDA declined in 2008 as a result of these charges and the downturn in the automotive industry, which resulted in lower sales volumes and reduced operating rates. EBITDA for 2007 was reduced by a $64 million charge primarily associated with the Companys decision in the fourth quarter of 2007 to exit the automotive sealants business in North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific.
 
Dow Elastomers sales for 2008 increased 7 percent from 2007 as a 16 percent improvement in price was partially offset by a 9 percent decrease in volume. Double-digit price improvement was reported in all geographic areas. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges of $42 million, which included $40 million for the Companys fourth quarter decision to shut down facilities that manufacture NORDEL hydrocarbon rubber in Seadrift, Texas, and TYRIN chlorinated polyethylene in Plaquemine, Louisiana, and a $2 million adjustment to the 2007 restructuring charge related to contract cancellation penalties associated with the decision to shut down the rubber plant located in Berre, France. In addition, EBITDA was reduced $5 million due to the impact of the hurricanes in the second half of 2008. Compared with 2007, EBITDA for the business declined due to lower operating rates, lower equity earnings and higher raw material costs. Results for 2007 included restructuring charges of $61 million which included impairment charges related to the rubber plant in Berre, France.
 
Dow Wire and Cable sales for 2008 were up 51 percent from 2007 due to a 37 percent improvement in volume and a 14 percent improvement in price. The gain in volume was largely due to a new marketing agreement between the Company and Nippon Unicar Company Limited (NUC), a nonconsolidated affiliate, which became effective in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of the new marketing agreement with NUC, volume was flat with 2007. Compared with 2007, EBITDA for the business decreased due to higher raw material costs and lower operating rates. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by $1 million due to the impact of the hurricanes in the second half of 2008. Results for 2007 included restructuring charges of $1 million.
 
27
 
 
Formulated Systems sales for 2008 increased 18 percent versus the prior year with a 7 percent increase in price and an 11 percent increase in volume. The improvement in price was reported in all geographic areas. The increase in volume was driven by growth from epoxy systems acquisitions that participate in wind energy and infrastructure applications, and polyurethane systems acquisitions that participate in cold storage and pipeline applications. EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by $1 million of restructuring charges. Compared with last year, EBITDA declined significantly as higher hydrocarbons and energy and other raw material costs, reduced operating rates and increased operational spending more than offset the increase in sales.
Performance Systems Outlook for 2009
Due to an expectation of continued softness in the global economy, Performance Systems sales are expected to decline in 2009, with particular weakness in the first half of the year. Expectations are for a recovery to begin late in 2009 as demand begins to improve and spending related to announced economic stimulus plans increases. A number of the businesses within the Performance Systems segment stand to benefit from increased spending on infrastructure projects. In addition to lower sales volume in 2009, hydrocarbon and raw material costs are expected to be lower, creating downward pressure on selling prices.
 
Automotive Systems expects sales to be down for the year, in line with global automotive industry trends, driven by a lack of consumer confidence and tight credit markets. North America and Europe are expected to experience the most significant declines. Prices are expected to be in line with 2008 as competitive pressure associated with the downturn in the automotive industry will make price increases difficult to implement. Automotive Systems will continue to take action in 2009 to exit low margin business.
 
Dow Elastomers expects sales volume in 2009 to be well below 2008 levels with particular weakness in the first half of the year. Prices are projected to be lower in 2009 due to declining hydrocarbon and other raw material costs and increased competitive pressure as market participants aggressively pursue sales volume in a weak market. Medical and food packaging applications are proving to be somewhat less impacted by the global downturn, and governmental economic stimulus plans that target increased spending on infrastructure projects could help fuel growth.
 
Dow Wire and Cable expects sales volume to be down in the first half of 2009 with some recovery in the second half of the year as governmental economic stimulus plans that target increased spending on infrastructure projects could help fuel growth in some niche applications in the business.
 
Formulated Systems expects volume to be soft in the first half of 2009 with some recovery in the second half of the year linked to overall improvement in global economic conditions. Prices are expected to be lower in 2009 consistent with lower hydrocarbon and other raw material costs. Recent capacity additions are expected to keep industry operating rates depressed.
PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS
Performance Products sales were $12,216 million in 2008, down from $12,976 million in 2007 and flat with 2006 sales of $12,204 million. Compared with 2007, sales declined 6 percent with price increasing 12 percent and volume declining 18 percent. The improvement in price was broad-based, supported by higher feedstock and raw material costs, with double-digit increases realized in all businesses (except Epoxy where price increased 3 percent) and geographic areas. Volume declined sharply in 2008 due to the downturn in the global economy experienced late in the year. In 2007, price improved 6 percent over 2006, including the favorable impact of currency of 3 percent, while volume remained stable.
 
EBITDA for 2008 was $1,050 million, compared with $1,991 million in 2007 and $1,824 million in 2006. Results for 2008 were negatively impacted by costs of $59 million related to the U.S Gulf Coast hurricanes and restructuring charges of $39 million related to the closure of several manufacturing facilities announced in the fourth quarter. EBITDA declined from 2007 as the favorable impact of higher selling prices in 2008 was more than offset by increased feedstock and energy and raw material costs and decreased sales volume resulting from contraction in the global economy.
 
Results for 2007 were negatively impacted by restructuring charges of $55 million including a charge of $42 million related to the write-down of the Companys indirect 50 percent interest in Dow Reichhold Specialty Latex LLC and charges of $13 million related to the write-down of two manufacturing facilities. EBITDA for 2007 increased slightly from 2006 as the benefit from higher selling prices was partially offset by increased feedstock and energy and other raw material costs, higher freight and operating expenses, and the unfavorable impact of currency on costs. EBITDA for 2006 included
 
28
 
restructuring charges of $265 million which included the permanent shutdown of the Companys toluene diisocyanate (TDI) plant in Porto Marghera, Italy. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on all restructuring charges.
 
Amines sales were up 6 percent versus 2007, with a 22 percent increase in price and a 16 percent decrease in volume. The improvement in price was widespread with double-digit gains realized across all geographic areas supported by higher raw material costs. The decline in volume was primarily due to lower demand as customers depleted inventory levels in response to the slowing global economy. Despite improvements in selling prices, EBITDA declined in 2008 due to higher feedstock and energy and other raw material costs, the impact of lower sales volume and reduced operating rates. EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by hurricane-related costs of $3 million.
 
Emulsion Polymers sales increased 9 percent versus 2007, with an 18 percent increase in price and a 9 percent decrease in volume. Compared with 2007, paper and carpet latex prices were higher in all geographic areas, while volume declined due to economic conditions in both industries. Carpet latex volume was down due to the slow housing industry. Paper latex continued to be impacted by changes in the advertising industry, as spending moves toward alternative media versus print and coated paper, as well as excess capacity in both North America and Europe. EBITDA for 2008 increased compared with 2007 as higher selling prices were partially offset by higher raw material costs, reduced equity earnings and lower sales volume. In addition, EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges of $11 million related to the permanent closure of three manufacturing facilities located in Varennes, Canada; Pittsburg, California; and Kings Lynn, United Kingdom. EBITDA for 2007 included a charge of $42 million related to the write-down of the Companys indirect 50 percent interest in Dow Reichhold Specialty Latex LLC.
 
Epoxy sales in 2008 declined 42 percent compared with last year, with volume down 45 percent and price up 3 percent. The decline in volume was primarily related to the shift of sales for coating applications to the newly formed Dow Coating Materials business; it was impracticable to restate the sales prior to the formation of the Dow Coating Materials business. Excluding the shift of sales to Dow Coating Materials, volume declined in all geographic areas and key market segments as a result of the global economic downturn. The modest improvement in price was due to a more favorable overall sales mix, with particular strength in the business specialty product offerings. Results for 2008 included a restructuring charge of $28 million related to the Companys fourth quarter decision to exit the solution vinyl resin business and shut down its manufacturing plant located in Texas City, Texas. In addition, the business incurred costs of $15 million due to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes in the second half of 2008. Compared with 2007, EBITDA declined sharply in 2008 due to the slowdown in the global economy, which resulted in lower sales volume and reduced operating rates, significantly higher hydrocarbon and raw material costs and increased operating expenses. In 2007, EBITDA was negatively impacted by a $2 million charge related to the Companys decision to exit the hydroxyalkyl acrylate business.
 
Oxygenated Solvents sales were down 10 percent in 2008 with a 15 percent increase in price more than offset by a 25 percent decline in volume. The increase in price, particularly in North America, was driven by high feedstock and energy costs. Volume declined due to the weak economic conditions and production outages experienced at various manufacturing facilities. Results for 2008 included $6 million of costs related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes. EBITDA declined from 2007 due to the impact of lower sales volume and reduced operating rates.
 
Performance Fluids, Polyglycols and Surfactants sales were up 9 percent versus 2007, with a 15 percent increase in price and a 6 percent decrease in volume. Compared with 2007, all geographic areas reported double-digit price increases principally driven by higher feedstock and energy and other raw material costs. Volume declined from 2007 primarily due to lower demand in the United States. EBITDA for 2008 declined as the benefit of higher selling prices was more than offset by increased feedstock and energy and other raw material costs, the impact of lower sales volume and lower operating rates. EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by hurricane-related costs of $7 million.
 
Performance Monomers sales were flat versus 2007, with a 13 percent increase in price offset by a 13 percent decrease in volume. Compared with 2007, prices were up across all geographic areas while volume declined in all geographic areas. Despite the improvement in prices, EBITDA declined in 2008 due to higher feedstock and energy costs, higher other raw material costs, lower sales volume and lower operating rates. EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by hurricane-related costs of $3 million. EBITDA for 2007 included restructuring charges of $4 million related to the write-down of a manufacturing asset.
 
Polyurethanes sales for 2008 increased 1 percent versus the prior year with an 11 percent increase in price largely offset by a 10 percent decline in volume. The improvement in price was reported in all geographic areas and product lines, supported by significantly higher hydrocarbon and raw material prices during most of the year. The decline in volume was driven by a sharp drop in demand late in the year due to the weakened global economy and efforts by customers to preserve cash and reduce inventory levels. EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by $25 million of costs related to the third quarter hurricanes. Compared with last year, EBITDA declined primarily due to higher feedstock and energy and other raw material costs and the impact of the global economic slowdown, which resulted in a lower sales volume and reduced operating rates.
 
29
 
 
Performance Products Outlook for 2009
Amines sales are expected to decline. Volume is forecast to remain at low levels in the first half of 2009; however, inventory restocking should help offset weak demand in the second half of 2009. Prices are expected to decrease due to declining monoethylene glycol prices, putting pricing pressure on ethylene oxide derivative products.
 
Emulsion Polymers sales are expected to decrease due to the continued slowdown in the housing industry, impacting demand for carpet latex. Significant pressure on pricing is expected as raw material costs decline and demand remains weak.
 
Epoxy volume is expected to be down in 2009 due to the fourth quarter of 2008 decision to exit the solution vinyl resin business and the expectation that overall industry demand will remain low in the first half of 2009, although some improvement is expected late in the year. Excess capacity across the industry will create a very competitive marketplace in 2009.
 
Oxygenated Solvents volume and margins are expected to be flat in early 2009; while demand is expected to recover modestly in the second half of 2009, additional margin compression is expected as the competitive environment strengthens.
 
Performance Fluids, Polyglycols and Surfactants sales are expected to decline with prices falling as a result of lower hydrocarbon and raw material costs as well as weakness in the global economy and increased competitive pressure. Volume is also expected to be lower in 2009.
 
Performance Monomers sales are expected to decline in 2009 due to continued weak demand along with pressure on price resulting from declining raw material and energy costs.
 
Polyurethanes volume is expected to be soft in the first half of 2009 with some recovery in the second half of the year linked to overall improvement in global economic conditions. Prices are expected to be lower in 2009 consistent with lower hydrocarbon and other raw material costs. Recent capacity additions are expected to keep industry operating rates depressed.
BASIC PLASTICS
Sales for the Basic Plastics segment were $14,240 million in 2008, up 1 percent from $14,167 million in 2007. Sales were $13,057 million in 2006. Prices increased 12 percent in 2008, while volume decreased 11 percent. While strong price increases were reported in all geographic areas, there was considerable decline in prices in the fourth quarter. During the first nine months of 2008, prices moved significantly higher in response to rapidly escalating feedstock and energy costs. In the fourth quarter, an unprecedented drop in feedstock costs and the global economic crisis resulted in significant price declines across all geographic areas and product lines. While volume improved in IMEA, high prices, wide fluctuations in feedstock and energy costs, and growing weakness in the global economy resulted in volume declines in all other geographic areas. North America volumes were reduced by the May 2008 formation of Americas Styrenics LLC; the December 2007 closure of the polypropylene manufacturing facility at St. Charles Operations in Hahnville, Louisiana; and the impact of the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes. In 2007, prices increased 8 percent over 2006, while volume increased 1 percent. Price increases were reported in all geographic areas, reflecting significantly higher feedstock and energy costs. While 2007 volume was higher in Asia Pacific and Europe, higher prices, a competitive industry, and concerns about the strength of the U.S. economy resulted in lower volume in North America, which was also impacted by the shutdown of two production facilities at the end of 2006.
 
EBITDA for 2008 was $1,746 million, down from $2,804 million in 2007 and $2,851 million in 2006. EBITDA declined in 2008 as price increases were not sufficient to offset the significant increases in feedstock and other raw material costs, lower equity earnings, and reduced operating rates. While equity earnings from EQUATE were slightly higher than 2007, EBITDA was negatively impacted by significantly lower earnings from Siam Polyethylene, Equipolymers, LG Dow Polycarbonate Limited and Sumitomo Dow Limited, and a loss from Americas Styrenics LLC. EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $148 million. The restructuring charges reflect the write-down of the Companys investment in a project to form a joint venture in Oman with the Oman Petrochemicals Industries Company LLC; costs related to the shutdown of production facilities (Terneuzen, The Netherlands; Freeport, Texas; and Riverside, Missouri); as well as costs associated with the permanent shutdown of the operations of the Ptromont and Company, Limited Partnership (Ptromont) joint venture in Varennes, Canada. EBITDA also included a goodwill impairment loss of $30 million associated with the polypropylene reporting unit (see Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as costs of $16 million related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes. EBITDA declined in 2007 as price increases were not sufficient to offset the significant increase in feedstock and other raw material costs. Equity earnings increased over 2006 due to significantly higher earnings from EQUATE (due to planned maintenance turnarounds in 2006), partially offset by lower equity earnings from Siam Polyethylene, Equipolymers, LG Dow Polycarbonate Limited and Sumitomo Dow Limited. EBITDA in 2007 reflected restructuring charges totaling $96 million primarily related to the announced shutdown of the polypropylene production facility at St. Charles Operations in Hahnville, Louisiana; the write-down of the Companys 50 percent interest in Ptromont; and the write-off of abandoned engineering costs. In addition, EBITDA in 2006 was negatively impacted by restructuring charges totaling $16 million related to the shutdown of the polystyrene and polyethylene production facilities in Sarnia, Ontario, Canada.
 
30
 
Polyethylene sales increased 11 percent in 2008 as prices increased 15 percent and volume declined 4 percent. During the first nine months of 2008, double-digit price increases were seen in all geographic areas in response to significantly higher feedstock and energy costs. Prices fell sharply in the fourth quarter as the result of an unprecedented drop in crude oil prices. Volume declines occurred as the growing global economic crisis and rapidly declining oil and natural gas prices resulted incustomers significantly reducing purchases. Volume in Asia Pacific was lower during the second half of the year as customers were slow to return to the market following the Olympic Games. Despite the improvement in selling prices, EBITDA declined in 2008 due to higher raw material costs, the decline in volume, lower operating rates and lower equity earnings from Siam Polyethylene. EBITDA in 2008 reflected restructuring charges of $142 million including the write-down of costs associated with the Oman Petrochemicals Industries Company LLC joint venture; and costs associated with the permanent closure of the Ptromont joint venture. EBITDA for 2008 also reflected costs of $12 million related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes. EBITDA in 2007 reflected a restructuring charge of $46 million related to the impairment write-down of the Companys 50 percent interest in Ptromont and the write-down of abandoned engineering costs of $16 million. EBITDA in 2007 was favorably impacted by a gain on the sale of the Companys low-density polyethylene plant in Cubato, Brazil, in the second quarter of 2007.
 
 
Polypropylene sales decreased 10 percent in 2008 as prices improved 10 percent and volume declined 20 percent. Polypropylene prices increased during the first nine months of 2008 in response to significantly higher propylene costs; however prices fell sharply in the fourth quarter due to declining feedstock costs. Volume declined significantly in Europe and North America during 2008. Volume in Europe was lower due to new industry capacity and lower demand. Volume in North America was lower due to the December 2007 shutdown of the Companys polypropylene manufacturing facility at St. Charles Operations in Hahnville, Louisiana, reduced customer demand, and lower exports. EBITDA was significantly lower in 2008 due to higher propylene costs, lower volume, reduced operating rates, the $30 million goodwill impairment loss associated with the polypropylene reporting unit (see Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $2 million of costs related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes. EBITDA for 2007 was negatively impacted by a restructuring charge of $25 million related to the shutdown of the Companys polypropylene manufacturing facility at St. Charles Operations.
 
Styrenics sales declined 27 percent in 2008 as prices improved 3 percent and volume decreased 30 percent. Prices improved slightly, primarily due to the impact of currency. Volume declined significantly in North America and Latin America due to the formation of Americas Styrenics LLC in May 2008. Volume also declined in Europe and Asia Pacific as the growing economic crisis and high prices resulted in lower demand. In 2008, EBITDA was significantly lower than 2007 due to higher feedstock and raw material costs, lower volume, reduced operating rates, equity losses from Americas Styrenics LLC, and restructuring charges of $6 million related to the shutdown of the Companys production facilities in Terneuzen, The Netherlands; and Riverside, Missouri.
Basic Plastics Outlook for 2009
Feedstock and energy costs are expected to increase from year-end 2008 levels during 2009, but on average remain lower overall than in 2008. The global economy is expected to remain weak during 2009, limiting the ability to increase prices and grow volume. New global polyethylene and polypropylene capacity will be coming on-line during 2009 further increasing competition and limiting the ability to increase prices and improve volumes.
 
With feedstock costs expected to be lower on average in 2009, polyethylene margins are expected to be lower as well. Significant new Middle East industry production capacity will be coming on stream during 2009 and, given that these will have cost-advantaged feedstocks, exports from the Middle East to Europe and North America are expected to increase. EQUATE will start up a new polyethylene train in mid-2009, however equity earnings are expected to be significantly lower due to depressed polyethylene prices and lower demand.
 
Polypropylene prices and demand are both expected to remain low during 2009. The business will be impacted by lower feedstock costs, the global economic slowdown, and new industry capacity in the Middle East that will come on-line during the year. With the shutdown of the St. Charles Operations production facility in 2007, the focus in North America will continue to be on targeted, higher margin products, and the business expects to achieve margins similar to 2008. In Europe, new industry capacity in the Middle East and weak industry fundamentals will negatively impact margins.
 
31
 
 
Styrenics prices and volume are both expected to decline in 2009. Volume will be lower, reflecting the full-year impact of the formation of Americas Styrenics LLC. The shutdown of polystyrene production facilities in The Netherlands and United States will also negatively impact volume. Prices are expected to decline in 2009 as a result of lower feedstock costs. Despite these challenges, the business expects to achieve margins similar to 2008. Equity earnings from Americas Styrenics LLC will be lower due to poor industry dynamics and planned maintenance turnaround activities.
 
On November 28, 2008, the Company and PIC signed a Joint Venture Formation Agreement (JVFA) to form a 50:50 global petrochemicals joint venture, K-Dow Petrochemicals (K-Dow). However, PIC failed to close the K-Dow transaction on January 2, 2009, as required by the JVFA. See Matters Involving the Formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals at the end of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information.
BASIC CHEMICALS
Sales for Basic Chemicals were $4,265 million in 2008, compared with $4,434 million in 2007 and $4,648 million in 2006. Overall, sales decreased 4 percent as prices rose 13 percent and volume decreased 17 percent. Price increases were reported in all geographic areas (except Asia Pacific) with particular strength in Latin America and North America, driven by significant increases in feedstock and energy costs through the third quarter of 2008 and tight industry supply/demand balances in the caustic soda market that drove prices higher. Volume decreased across all business and geographic areas (except IMEA), with the largest decline in ethylene oxide/ethylene glycol (EO/EG), mainly driven by weak economic conditions, poor industry fundamentals and planned and unplanned outages. In 2007, volume was down 10 percent from 2006, due to declines in EG and ethylene dichloride (EDC) driven by the shutdown of the Companys EDC production facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, Canada in the fourth quarter of 2006. Prices rose 5 percent in 2007 versus 2006 due to price improvements in EO/EG mainly driven by increases in feedstock and energy costs.
 
Caustic soda sales improved 20 percent in 2008 as a 39 percent increase in price was offset by a 19 percent decline in volume. Volume declined due to the impact of the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes that forced a temporary outage of the Companys U.S. Gulf Coast manufacturing facilities and reduced chlorine derivative demand, prompting the declaration of force majeure in Europe, Latin America and North America. This led to a tight supply of caustic soda in the market and as demand remained strong across all market segments, prices rose significantly. The sale of the Companys caustic soda distribution business in Western Canada in the fourth quarter of 2007 also contributed to the decline in volume.
 
Vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) sales were down slightly, as price increases were more than offset by a decline in volume. Volume declined primarily due to the impacts of the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes which forced a temporary outage of the Companys U.S. Gulf Coast manufacturing facilities, unplanned maintenance outages and a large inventory correction by downstream polyvinyl chloride (PVC) fabricators as industry conditions declined.
 
EO/EG sales decreased 20 percent in 2008. Volume declined 23 percent driven by weak industry fundamentals, additional capacity in the Middle East, planned and unplanned outages, and a significant decline in textile demand in Europe and North America, which reduced the demand for polyester fiber in Asia Pacific. Price was up 3 percent due to the favorable impact of currency. In the first half of the year prices increased due to high feedstock and energy costs; however, significant price erosion occurred in the fourth quarter as feedstock and energy prices declined.
 
EBITDA for Basic Chemicals was $278 million in 2008, compared with $952 million in 2007 and $1,185 million in 2006. Results for the segment in 2008 were reduced by hurricane-related costs of $35 million and restructuring charges of $103 million related to the impairment of the EO/EG plant at Wilton, England; the closure of the chlorinated organics plant in Aratu, Brazil; and the closure of the chlor-alkali plant in Oyster Creek, Texas (see Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements). EBITDA in 2008 declined sharply from 2007 due to higher feedstock and energy costs which compressed margins, and lower equity earnings from EQUATE and MEGlobal. In 2007, results were reduced by restructuring charges of $7 million related to the write-off of capital project spending. Results for 2006 included restructuring charges of $155 million related to the closure of the chlor-alkali plant at Fort Saskatchewan, Canada, as well as a number of other small manufacturing facilities. Excluding restructuring charges, EBITDA for 2007 declined from 2006 as sharply higher feedstock and energy costs, increases in other raw material costs and decreased sales volume more than offset increased equity earnings from EQUATE and MEGlobal.
Basic Chemicals Outlook for 2009
Caustic soda demand is expected to soften during 2009 due to depressed global economic conditions. Prices are expected to remain at record levels in early 2009 due to favorable supply/demand balances the first half of the year; a correction, however, is expected to occur in the latter part of 2009. Volume is expected to decline in 2009 due to continuing low demand for chlorine derivatives and the closure of the chlor-alkali plant in Oyster Creek, Texas.
 
32
 
VCM sales are expected to decline in 2009 as prices sharply decrease, despite anticipated volume increases. Prices are expected to decline due to weak supply/demand fundamentals and lower feedstock and energy prices. Volume is expected to increase as downstream PVC inventories are critically low and restocking is expected to occur. Expected improvements in the global economy in the later part of 2009 will increase the demand for end-use applications of PVC.
 
Supply of EG is expected to increase in an already oversupplied market facing declining customer demand as significant additional production capacity is expected to come on-line in the Middle East in 2009.
 
Significant deterioration of equity income from EQUATE, MEGlobal and OPTIMAL is expected due to price deterioration.
HYDROCARBONS AND ENERGY
Hydrocarbons and Energy sales were $8,968 million in 2008 compared with $7,105 million in 2007 and $6,205 million in 2006. In 2008, prices were up 21 percent and volume increased 5 percent from 2007. The increase in selling prices in 2008 was driven by significantly higher overall feedstock, monomer and energy costs. Sales of monomers increased compared with last year due to a styrene supply contract with Americas Styrenics LLC. In 2007, prices were up 12 percent and volume increased 3 percent from 2006. Prices improved in 2007 following the continued rise in crude oil and feedstock costs, and tight supply/demand balance for certain hydrocarbon products. Volume in 2007 increased primarily due to additional U.S. power sales resulting from the fourth quarter 2006 acquisition of the Plaquemine Cogeneration Facility in Louisiana.
 
The Hydrocarbons and Energy business transfers materials to Dows derivative businesses at net cost, which results in EBITDA that is at or near breakeven. EBITDA in 2008 was a loss of $70 million due to hurricane-related costs of $52 million and restructuring charges of $18 million. In 2007, EBITDA was a loss of $45 million due to restructuring charges of $44 million principally due to the shutdown of the Companys styrene monomer plant in Camaari, Brazil, and the closure of storage wells in Fort Saskatchewan, Canada. EBITDA for the segment was at breakeven in 2006. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges.
 
The Company uses derivatives of crude oil and natural gas as feedstocks in its ethylene facilities, while natural gas is used as fuel. The Companys cost of purchased feedstock and energy rose $5.9 billion (28 percent) in 2008. Crude oil prices increased for much of the year, and on average, 2008 prices were $24 per barrel higher than 2007 levels. North American natural gas prices continued the upward trend, and were approximately $1.89 per million Btu higher than in 2007, an increase of approximately 27 percent.
Hydrocarbons and Energy Outlook for 2009
Crude oil and natural gas prices are expected to remain volatile and sensitive to external factors such as weather, economic activity and geopolitical tensions. The Company expects crude oil prices, on average, to be significantly lower than 2008. Ethylene margins are expected to be lower in 2009 due to global capacity growth, particularly in the Middle East, exceeding global demand growth. Ethylene margins could improve somewhat compared with these expectations, in the event of stronger than anticipated demand and a delay of new capacity within the industry. The economic outlook is uncertain and the faltering economy and/or major spikes in crude oil prices could contribute to a decline in margins and volume.
CORPORATE
Sales for Corporate, which primarily relate to the Companys insurance operations, were $323 million in 2008 compared with $410 million in 2007 and $330 million in 2006. Included in the results for Corporate are:
 
EBITDA was a loss of $1,005 million in 2008 compared with a loss of $854 million in 2007 and a loss of $589 million in 2006. EBITDA for 2008 was reduced by 2008 restructuring charges totaling $430 million, including employee-related severance expenses of $321 million, pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $88 million, asset write-offs and environmental obligations of $21 million; net unfavorable adjustments to prior year restructuring plans of $2 million; increased spending related to acquisitions and joint venture formation activity, including legal expenses and other costs related to the K-Dow transaction ($69 million) and the pending acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company ($49 million); and
 
33
 
 
costs associated with the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes of $9 million. EBITDA in 2008 was also impacted by lower foreign exchange hedging results, lower earnings from insurance company operations, a reduction in performance-based compensation (including stock-based compensation) of $295 million compared with 2007, and a $54 million reduction in the asbestos-related liability.
 
EBITDA for 2007 was reduced by 2007 restructuring charges totaling $105 million, including employee-related severance expenses of $86 million, pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $15 million and asset write-offs of $4 million; franchise taxes of approximately $80 million; and higher performance-based compensation expenses (including stock-based compensation) of approximately $230 million. EBITDA for 2007 was favorably impacted by improved results from insurance company operations, foreign exchange hedging results, and an $8 million favorable adjustment to the restructuring charge for employee-related expenses recorded in the third quarter of 2006.
 
See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding restructuring charges.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The Companys cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, are summarized in the following table:
Despite significantly lower earnings in 2008, cash provided by operating activities improved compared with 2007 due to a reduction in working capital requirements, largely the result of the Companys intense focus on cost control and cash generation in the fourth quarter of 2008 in response to the global economic downturn. Despite lower earnings in 2007, cash provided by operating activities increased versus 2006, principally due to a reduction in cash contributed to the Companys pension plans.
 
34
 
Cash used in investing activities in 2008 was down slightly compared with 2007, as an increase in capital expenditures of $201 million and an increase in investments in nonconsolidated affiliates (including $69 million for Americas Styrenics LLC and $161 million additional investment in two Kuwaiti joint ventures), was more than offset by a lower level of investing in consolidated companies, despite acquisitions of several small agricultural seed companies totaling $100 million in 2008. Cash used in investing activities in 2007 increased significantly compared with 2006 due to investments in consolidated companies (including $603 million for Wolff Walsrode and $151 million for Hyperlast Limited; see Notes C and G to the Consolidated Financial Statements), a $300 million increase in capital expenditures, several acquisitions of agricultural businesses, partially offset by a lower usage of cash to purchase previously leased assets.
 
Cash used in financing activities in 2008 was down significantly compared with 2007, as cash generated by proceeds from issuances of long-term debt in excess of payments on long-term debt and a decrease in purchases of treasury stock, more than offset a reduction in the change in proceeds from the issuance of promissory notes under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program and lower proceeds from the sales of common stock (related to the exercise of stock options and the Employees Stock Purchase Plan). Cash used in financing activities in 2007 decreased compared with 2006 as the issuance of commercial paper and higher proceeds from the sales of common stock, more than offset increases in purchases of treasury stock and dividends paid to shareholders. In May 2007, the quarterly dividend was increased 12 percent.
 
On August 29, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a plan (the 2006 Plan) to shut down a number of the Companys manufacturing facilities. These shutdowns are scheduled to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009. On December 3, 2007, the Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the 2007 Plan) that included the shutdown of a number of assets and organizational changes within targeted functions. These restructuring activities are expected to be completed by the end of 2009. On December 5, 2008, the Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the 2008 Plan) as part of a series of actions to advance the Companys strategy and respond to the recent, severe economic downturn, including the shutdown of a number of facilities and a workforce reduction. The 2008 Plan is expected to be completed by the end of 2010. The activities related to the three plans are expected to result in additional cash expenditures of approximately $683 million over the next few years related to severance costs, contract termination fees, asbestos abatement and environmental remediation (see Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Dow expects to incur future costs related to its restructuring activities, as the Company continually looks for ways to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of its operations, to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and across geographic areas. Future costs are expected to include demolition costs related to the closed facilities, which will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits, related to its other optimization activities, and pension plan settlement costs. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
At December 31, 2008, trade receivables were $3.8 billion, down from $5.9 billion at December 31, 2007, consistent with the significant drop in sales (23 percent) in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with the fourth quarter of 2007. Days-sales-outstanding-in-receivables (excluding the impact of sales of receivables) was 42 days at December 31, 2008 compared with 38 days at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, total inventories were $6.0 billion, down from $6.9 billion at December 31, 2007, due to lower feedstock and energy costs at year end 2008 and significantly lower plant operating rates. Days-sales-in-inventory at December 31, 2008 was 58 days versus 61 days at December 31, 2007.
 
35
 
 
Debt as a percent of total capitalization increased from 31.8 percent in 2007 to 45.7 percent in 2008, with almost two-thirds of the increase due to a decline in equity, principally the result of lower earnings and a significant increase in Accumulated other comprehensive loss largely driven by a decline in the value of pension plan assets.
 
As part of its ongoing financing activities, Dow has the ability to issue promissory notes under its U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2008, there was $1.6 billion of commercial paper outstanding. Through January 2009, the Company maintained access to the commercial paper market at competitive rates. In the event Dow has short-term liquidity needs and is unable to access these short-term markets for any reason, Dow has the ability to access liquidity through its committed and available $3 billion 5-year revolving credit facility with various U.S. and foreign banks. This credit facility matures in April 2011; at December 31, 2008 and thru January 2009, the Company had not utilized this facility.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Company had $365 million of SEC-registered securities available for issuance under the Companys U.S. retail medium-term note program (InterNotes), Euro 5.0 billion (approximately $7.0 billion) available for issuance under the Companys Euro Medium Term Note Program, as well as Japanese yen 50 billion (approximately $554 million) of securities available for issuance under a shelf registration filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange on July 31, 2006 and renewed on July 31, 2008. In addition, as a well-known seasoned issuer, the Company filed an automatic shelf registration for an unspecified amount of mixed securities with the SEC on February 23, 2007. Under this shelf registration, the Company may offer common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, debt securities, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units.
 
On May 1, 2008, the Company issued $800 million in unsecured notes with a coupon rate of 5.70 percent, semi-annual interest payments due every May and November, and the principal amount due at maturity on May 15, 2018. Between May and December 2008, the Company issued $579 million in retail medium-term notes with varying maturities in 2013, 2015 and 2018 and at various interest rates averaging 6.15 percent. Net proceeds from the notes were primarily used to refinance maturing debt. On September 29, 2008, Calvin Capital LLC (Calvin), a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued a three-year $674 million note payable (Note) with a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Note was issued in exchange for the redemption of the other partners ownership in Hobbes Capital S.A. and was a non-cash transaction (see Note Q of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this transaction). The Note is recorded in Long-term debt due within one year in the consolidated balance sheets since the Note holder has the annual option to require the Company to prepay the outstanding principal.
 
The Note was issued under a note purchase agreement which contains, among other provisions, covenants with which Calvin must comply while the Note is outstanding. Such covenants include compliance with Calvins Limited Liability Company Agreement, the obligation to not merge or consolidate with any other corporation or sell or convey all or substantially all of Calvins assets, and limitations on making distributions and incurring other debt. Failure of Calvin to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreement, which would allow the Note holder to accelerate the due date of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the Note. Although a consolidated subsidiary, Calvin is a separate and distinct legal entity with separate assets of $1,342 million consisting of a $1,317 million note receivable from the Company with a three-year term and optional prepayment at the end of each fiscal quarter, and cash and cash equivalents of $25 million; separate liabilities consisting of the $674 million Note; and separate business and operations. Dows public debt instruments and documents for its private funding transactions contain, among other provisions, certain covenants and default provisions. At December 31, 2008, management believes the Company was in compliance with all of these covenants and default provisions. For information on Dows covenants and default provisions, see Note L to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The Companys credit rating is investment grade. The Companys long-term credit ratings were downgraded on December 29, 2008 by Moodys from A3 to Baa1 with outlook under review for possible downgrade and by Standard & Poors from A- to BBB with credit watch negative. The Companys short-term credit rating is A2/P2 negative/negative. If the Companys credit rating is further downgraded, it could have a negative impact on the Companys ability to access credit markets and could increase borrowing costs.
 
On July 14, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 25 million shares of Dow common stock over the period ended on December 31, 2007 (the 2005 Program). The Company purchased 714,200 shares in 2005 and 18,084,207 shares in 2006 under the 2005 Program. During 2007, the Company purchased the remaining 6,201,593 shares under the 2005 Program, bringing the program to a close.
 
36
 
On October 26, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved a new share buy-back program, authorizing up to $2 billion to be spent on the repurchase of the Companys common stock (the 2006 Program). Purchases under the 2006 Program began in March 2007, following completion of the 2005 Program. In 2007, the Company purchased
26,225,207 shares under the 2006 Program. In 2008, the Company purchased 21,867,831 shares under the 2006 Program, bringing the total number of shares purchased under this program to 48,093,038 and bringing the program to a close.
Capital Expenditures
Capital spending for the year was $2,276 million, up from $2,075 million in 2007 and $1,775 million in 2006. In 2008, approximately 40 percent of the Companys capital expenditures were directed toward additional capacity for new and existing products, compared with 31 percent in 2007 and 33 percent in 2006. In 2008, approximately 18 percent was committed to projects related to environmental protection, safety, loss prevention and industrial hygiene compared with 23 percent in 2007 and 24 percent in 2006. The remaining capital was utilized to maintain the Companys existing asset base, including projects related to productivity improvements, energy conservation and facilities support.
 
Major projects underway during 2008 included: the design and construction of a new chlor-alkali production facility to replace existing facilities, and the replacement of furnaces used in the production of ethylene in Freeport, Texas; construction of a regional headquarters facility in Shanghai, China; construction of a train for the production of synthetic rubber and an Automotive Systems production facility for glass bonding and primer products in Schkopau, Germany; expansion of methyl cellulosics capacity at Dow Wolff Cellulosics in Bitterfeld, Germany; construction of a new polyols plant in Terneuzen, The Netherlands; and projects to expand the capacity of the ethanolamines and ethyleneamines production facilities in Hahnville, Louisiana. Additional major projects included upgrades to isopropanol production facilities in Texas City, Texas; construction of a facility to produce diesel particulate filters in Midland, Michigan; and the construction of a facility to produce DOWANOL glycol ethers in Zhangjiagang, China. Because the Company designs and builds most of its capital projects in-house, it had no material capital commitments other than for the purchase of materials from fabricators and construction labor. The Company expects to lower its capital spending in 2009 to $1.1 billion; this reduction in capital spending may result in placing current capital projects on hold.
Contractual Obligations
The following tables summarize the Companys contractual obligations, commercial commitments and expected cash requirements for interest at December 31, 2008. Additional information related to these obligations can be found in Notes K, L, M, N and S to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
37
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specific triggering events occur. Information regarding the Company's outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2008 is disclosed in Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The Company leases an ethylene facility in The Netherlands from an owner trust that is a variable interest entity (VIE). Dow is not the primary beneficiary of the owner trust and, therefore, is not required to consolidate the owner trust. Additional information regarding this VIE can be found in Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fair Value Measurements
The Companys assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in the fair value hierarchy (Level 1, 2 or 3) based on the inputs used for valuation. Assets that are traded on an exchange with a quoted price are classified as Level 1. Assets and liabilities that are valued based on a bid or bid evaluation are classified as Level 2. The custodian of the Companys debt and equity securities uses multiple industry-recognized vendors for pricing information and established processes for validation and verification to assist the Company in its process for determining and validating fair values for these assets. The Company currently has no assets or liabilities that are valued using unobservable inputs and therefore no assets or liabilities classified as Level 3. See Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the Companys disclosures about fair value measurements
The sensitivity of fair value estimates is immaterial relative to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value, as well as to the total equity of the Company.
.
 
Portfolio managers and external investment managers regularly review all of the Companys holdings to determine if any investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. The analysis includes reviewing the amount of the temporary impairment, as well as the length of time it has been impaired. In addition, specific guidelines for each instrument type are followed to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. For debt securities, the credit rating of the issuer, current credit rating trends and the trends of the issuers overall sector are considered in determining impairment. For equity securities, the Companys investments are primarily in Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 companies; however, the Company also allows investments in companies outside of the S&P 500. In 2008, other-than-temporary impairment write-downs were $42 million.
Dividends
On February 12, 2009, the Board of Directors announced a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, payable April 30, 2009, to stockholders of record on March 31, 2009. Since 1912, the Company has paid a cash dividend every quarter and, in each instance prior to this dividend, has maintained or increased the amount of the dividend, adjusted for stock splits. During this 97-year period, Dow has increased the amount of the quarterly dividend 47 times (approximately 12 percent of the time), and maintained the amount of the quarterly dividend approximately 88 percent of the time. The dividend was reduced in February 2009, for the first time in the 97-year period, due to uncertainty in the credit markets, unprecedented lower demand for chemical products, the ongoing global recession and pending business issues. The Company declared dividends of $1.68 per share in 2008, $1.635 per share in 2007 and $1.50 per share in 2006.
 
38
 
Outlook for 2009
In 2008, the Company maintained its strong financial position in the face of several significant challenges, including the sixth consecutive year of double-digit percentage increases in feedstock and energy costs, the escalation of a global financial crisis, the landfall of two major hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast, and a sharp deterioration in the global economic environment. In the face of these challenges, Dows actions supported its commitment to financial discipline. Despite the difficult economic conditions in the latter part of the year, the Company had sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its business obligations.
 
Looking to 2009, the Company is assuming that the weak demand levels seen in late 2008 will continue for several quarters, with growth rates in developed economies in North America and Europe projected to remain weak well into the first half of the year and possibly for the entire year. Growth rates in developing regions, such as Brazil, India, and China, are projected to be more positive than in the developed world, although not nearly as strong as in 2008. At this early stage in the year, product inventories across value chains remain low and substantial capacity is still off-line. Many end-market producers, including those in emerging geographies, are favoring a make-to-order philosophy until clear demand signs emerge. Historically low inventory levels in North America, coupled with stabilizing commodity prices, are expected to provide some demand lift in the first part of 2009, although it is still unclear if these buying patterns will be short-lived. Government stimuli in the latter half of the year could bring greater speed to economic recovery, but it is too early to speculate on the impact of these incentives. Volatility in feedstock and energy costs is expected to continue, adding uncertainty to the Companys outlook. Ethylene chain supply fundamentals are expected to be impacted by significant capacity additions projected to start up in 2009.
 
As the Company continues to implement its strategy in a volatile global economic environment, its focus will remain on financial discipline, with an emphasis on cash preservation measures to ensure financial flexibility. The Company expects to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2009. The Company will continue to optimize its investment decisions while supporting its key growth initiatives, principally in its Performance businesses and in emerging geographies. The Company expects to lower its capital spending in 2009 to $1.1 billion, well below the expected level of depreciation but sufficient to maintain the safety and reliability of the Companys facilities and invest for growth. Approximately $3.8 billion of debt will become due in 2009, including approximately $1.6 billion of commercial paper and $0.8 billion of notes payable. The Company intends to meet its scheduled maturing debt obligations with the issuance of new debt. These actions, along with equity earnings from Dows joint ventures, will help the Company to partially offset the challenging economic environment ahead.
 
In addition, the Company will continue to strive to implement its strategic transformation. See Matters Involving the Formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals and Matters Involving the Acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company at the end of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information regarding these matters.
OTHER MATTERS
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements.
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by judgments, assumptions and estimates:
Litigation
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business. The Company routinely assesses the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after thoughtful analysis of each known issue and an actuarial analysis of historical claims experience for incurred but not reported matters. Dow has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers. These policies provide coverage that is utilized to minimize the impact, if any, of the legal proceedings. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. For further discussion, see Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
39
 
 
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem), are and have been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Union Carbide also increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion at December 31, 2002. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
 
In November 2006, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2006 and concluded that the experience from 2004 through 2006 was sufficient for the purpose of forecasting future filings and values of asbestos claims filed against UCC and Amchem, and could be used in place of previous assumptions to update the January 2005 study. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2006, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2021 was estimated to be between approximately $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. As in its January 2003 and January 2005 studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2006 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
Based on ARPCs December 2006 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims $177 million to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2006 which covered the 15-year period ending in 2021, excluding future defense and processing costs.
 
Following the completion of the review by ARPC in December 2007, as well as Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide determined that no change to the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was required. At December 31, 2007, Union Carbides asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $1.1 billion.
 
In November 2008, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2006 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2008. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2008, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2023 was estimated to be between $952 million and $1.2 billion. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2008 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
In December 2008, based on ARPCs December 2008 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $952 million, which covered the 15-year period ending 2023, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $54 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2008, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $934 million.
 
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $403 million at December 31, 2008 and $467 million at December 31, 2007. In addition, Union Carbide had receivables of $272 million at December 31, 2008 and $271 million at December 31, 2007 for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs.
 
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
 
For additional information, see Legal Proceedings, Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
40
 
Environmental Matters
The Company determines the costs of environmental remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on evaluations of current law and existing technologies. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress, or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. In the case of landfills and other active waste management facilities, Dow recognizes the costs over the useful life of the facility. At December 31, 2008, the Company had accrued obligations of $312 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $22 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. The Company had accrued obligations of $322 million at December 31, 2007 for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $28 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes A and K to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could be settled at December 31, 2008, rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. The U.S. pension plans represent approximately 73 percent of the Companys pension plan assets and 71 percent of the pension obligations.
The following information relates to the U.S. plans only; a similar approach is used for the Companys non-U.S. plans.
 
The Company determined the expected long-term rate of return on assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the Board of Directors and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Companys historical experience with the pension fund asset performance was also considered. The expected return of each asset class is derived from a forecasted future return confirmed by historical experience. The expected long-term rate of return is an assumption and not what is expected to be earned in any one particular year. The weighted-average long-term rate of return assumption used for determining net periodic pension expense for 2008 was 8.44 percent. This assumption remained unchanged for determining 2009 net periodic pension expense. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the population of participants in the Companys pension plans.
 
The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. qualified plans are based on the yield on high-quality fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows of Dows major U.S. plans are matched against the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve (Above Median) to arrive at a single discount rate by plan. The resulting discount rate decreased from 6.75 percent at December 31, 2007 to 6.61 percent at December 31, 2008.
 
The value of the U.S. qualified plan assets decreased from $11.9 billion at December 31, 2007 to $8.4 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company did not make any contributions to the U.S. qualified plans in 2008. The unfavorable impact of asset returns combined with a decrease in the assumed discount rate, resulted in a $3.9 billion reduction in the funded status from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the U.S. qualified plans were underfunded on a projected benefit obligation basis by $2.3 billion.
 
The assumption for the long-term rate of increase in compensation levels for the principal U.S. qualified plans is zero percent for 2009, 4.25 percent for 2010 and 4.50 percent thereafter. Since 2002, the Company has used a generational mortality table to determine the duration of its pension and other postretirement obligations.
The following discussion relates to all of the Companys pension plans.
 
The Company bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of plan assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return based on the market value of plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be impacted when previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. Over the life of the plan,
 
41
 
 
both gains and losses have been recognized and amortized. At December 31, 2008, net losses of $3,184 million remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of plan assets. These net losses will result in increases in future pension expense as they are recognized in the market-related value of assets and are a component of the total net loss of $5,691 million shown under Pretax amounts recognized in AOCI at December 31 in the table entitled Change in Projected Benefit Obligations, Plan Assets and Funded Status of all Significant Plans included in Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The other $2,507 million of net losses represents cumulative changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions. The net decrease in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior gains and losses is presented in the following table:
Based on the 2009 pension assumptions, a reduction in curtailment costs and changes in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior asset losses, the Company expects net periodic benefit costs to increase by approximately $25 million for all pension and other postretirement benefits in 2009 compared with 2008.
 
A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the long-term return on assets assumption would change the Companys total pension expense for 2009 by approximately $36 million. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate assumption would lower the Companys total pension expense for 2009 by approximately $33 million. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $41 million. A 25 basis point change in the long-term return and discount rate assumptions would have an immaterial impact on the other postretirement benefit expense for 2009.
Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered to be more likely than not.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Company had a net deferred tax asset balance of $3.4 billion, after valuation allowances of $487 million.
 
In evaluating the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, the Company relies principally on forecasted taxable income using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences and the availability of tax planning strategies.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Company had deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards of $2.2 billion, $43 million of which is subject to expiration in the years 2009-2013. In order to realize these deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, the Company needs taxable income of approximately $6.9 billion across multiple jurisdictions. The taxable income needed to realize the deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards that are subject to expiration between 2009-2013 is approximately $222 million.
 
The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. At December 31, 2008, the Company had uncertain tax positions for both domestic and foreign issues of $736 million.
 
The Company accrues for other tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a non-income tax contingency reserve for both domestic and foreign issues of $163 million.
 
For additional information, see Notes A and S to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
42
 
Environmental Matters
Environmental Policies
Dow is committed to world-class environmental, health and safety (EH&S) performance, as demonstrated by industry-leading performance, a long-standing commitment to Responsible Care, and a strong commitment to achieve the Companys 2015 Sustainability Goals  goals that set the standard for sustainability in the chemical industry by focusing on improvements in Dows local corporate citizenship and product stewardship, and by actively pursuing methods to reduce the Companys environmental impact.
 
To meet the Companys public commitments, as well as the stringent laws and government regulations related to environmental protection and remediation to which its global operations are subject, Dow has well-defined policies, requirements and management systems. Dows EH&S Management System (EMS) defines the who, what, when and how needed for the businesses to achieve the Companys policies, requirements, performance objectives, leadership expectations and public commitments. To ensure effective utilization, the EMS is integrated into a company-wide management system for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources.
 
It is Dows policy to adhere to a waste management hierarchy that minimizes the impact of wastes and emissions on the environment. First, Dow works to eliminate or minimize the generation of waste and emissions at the source through research, process design, plant operations and maintenance. Second, Dow finds ways to reuse and recycle materials. Finally, unusable or non-recyclable hazardous waste is treated before disposal to eliminate or reduce the hazardous nature and volume of the waste. Treatment may include destruction by chemical, physical, biological or thermal means. Disposal of waste materials in landfills is considered only after all other options have been thoroughly evaluated. Dow has specific requirements for waste that is transferred to non-Dow facilities, including the periodic auditing of these facilities.
 
Dow believes third-party verification and transparent public reporting are cornerstones of world-class EH&S performance and building public trust. As such, numerous Dow sites in Europe, Latin America, Australia and North America have received third-party verification of Dows compliance with Responsible Care and with outside specifications such as ISO-14001. During 2008, the Companys corporate headquarters in Midland, Michigan was audited by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance, and found to be in conformance with Responsible Care Management System requirements.
 
Dows EH&S policies helped the Company achieve excellent safety performance in 2008. Dows 2008 recordable injury/illness frequency rate and its injury/illness severity rate, while slightly increased from 2007 record-low levels, were both consistent with the path necessary to achieve the 2015 goals. Dows 2008 leaks, breaks and spills performance was the best ever and is consistent with the path necessary to achieve the 2015 goals. Improvement in process safety and environmental compliance remains a top management priority, with initiatives underway to further improve performance and compliance in 2009.
 
Detailed information on Dows performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on Dows Environment, Health and Safety webpage at .
www.dow.com
Chemical Security
Public and political attention continues to be placed on the protection of critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern about the security of chemical production and distribution. Many, including Dow and the American Chemistry Council, have called for uniform risk-based and performance-based national standards for securing the U.S. chemical industry. The Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) of 2002 and its regulations further set forth risk-based and performance-based standards that must be met at U.S. Coast Guard-regulated facilities. U.S. Chemical Plant Security legislation was passed in 2006 and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is now implementing the regulations known as the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards. The U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the U.S. Department of Transportation finalized regulations covering the rail transportation of chemicals as required by the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007. Dow continues to support uniform risk-based national standards for securing the chemical industry.
 
The focus on security is not new to Dow. A comprehensive, multi-level security plan for the Company has been maintained since 1988. This plan, which has been activated in response to significant world and national events since then, is reviewed on an annual basis. Dow continues to improve its security plans, placing emphasis on the safety of Dow communities and people by being prepared to meet risks at any level and to address both internal and external identifiable risks. Dows security plans also are developed to avert interruptions of normal business work operations that could materially and adversely affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
 
Dow played a key role in the development and implementation of the American Chemistry Councils Responsible Care Security Code that requires that all aspects of security  including facility, transportation and cyberspace  be assessed and gaps addressed. Through the Companys global implementation of the Security Code, Dow has permanently heightened the level of security  not just in the United States, but worldwide. Dow employs several hundred employees and contractors in its Emergency Services and Security department worldwide. In addition, Dow has committed approximately $200 million in
 
43
 
 
capital over a ten-year period for plant security, supply chain and cyberspace security enhancements, regulatory compliance and response capabilities as well as other components of Dows security program. These costs are not considered material to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
Through the implementation of the Security Code, including voluntary security enhancements and upgrades made since 2002, Dow is well-positioned to comply with the new U.S. chemical facility regulations and other regulatory security frameworks. In addition, Dow was the first chemical company to receive Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act (SAFETY Act) coverage in 2007 from the DHS for the Companys MTSA regulated-sites and to receive SAFETY Act coverage in 2008 for the Companys Rail Transportation Security Services. This unprecedented certification helps validate Dows efforts and provides additional liability coverage in the event of a terrorist attack.
 
Dow continues to work collaboratively across the supply chain on Responsible Care, Supply Chain Design, Emergency Preparedness, Shipment Visibility and transportation of hazardous materials. Dow is cooperating with public and private entities to lead the implementation of advanced tank car design and track and trace technologies. Further, Dows Distribution Risk Review process that has been in place for decades was expanded to address potential threats in all modes of transportation across the Companys supply chain. To reduce vulnerabilities, Dow maintains security measures that meet or exceed regulatory and industry security standards in all areas in which the Company operates.
 
Dow continually works to strengthen partnerships with local responders, law enforcement, and security agencies, and to enhance confidence in the integrity of the Companys security and risk management program, as well as strengthen its preparedness and response capabilities. Dow also works closely with its supply chain partners and strives to educate lawmakers, regulators and communities about the Companys resolve and actions to date which are mitigating security and crisis threats.
Climate Change
There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) due to human activities continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting the climate. Dow is committed to reducing its GHG intensity (pounds of GHG per pound of product), developing climate-friendly products and processes and, over the longer term, implementing technology solutions to achieve even greater climate change improvements. Since 1990, Dow has reduced its absolute GHG emissions by more than 20 percent, a more rapid reduction than required by Kyoto Protocol targets; and has achieved a 22 percent improvement in energy intensity (the amount of energy required to produce one pound of product) since 1994. In doing so, it has avoided consuming more than 1,600 trillion Btus, a savings that when converted to electricity would be more than sufficient to supply the electricity consumed by residential users in the State of California for one year. Through its energy savings, Dow has prevented more than 86 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. This trend could change, however, depending on business growth, capacity utilization and the pace of new technology development.
 
Dow also contributes to the climate change solution by producing products that help others reduce GHG emissions, such as lightweight plastics for automobiles and insulation for energy efficient homes and appliances. Dow has demonstrated its commitment to technological innovation and conservation. For example, a third-party verified life cycle assessment confirmed that the net reduction in GHG emissions resulting from the use of Dow thermal insulation in residential and commercial buildings and industrial pipe applications, avoided the emission of GHG to the atmosphere by approximately seven times the total GHG emissions of the Company itself. Dow Building and Construction built a 210 kilowatt solar farm at the Companys Pittsburg, California site. This project is the largest solar installation in Dow and the first commercial pilot for the Company, providing the energy equivalent to power 175 homes. At Dows carpet latex plant in Dalton, Georgia, the Company will use approximately 160 billion Btus of methane gas annually, supplied by a local landfill, to fuel the plant; equivalent to the energy required to heat 2,000 U.S. homes annually. By utilizing landfill gas, Dow will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 17 million pounds annually, which is equivalent to keeping 13,500 cars off the road each year.
 
Gains made toward Dows Energy Efficiency goal will directly impact progress in meeting its 2015 Climate Change goal to reduce GHG intensity by 2.5 percent a year per pound of product, from a 2005 baseline. Dow is studying the life cycle impact of its products on climate change and additional global projects that could offset the Companys overall GHG emissions through carbon dioxide reduction.
 
Dows Energy & Climate Change Policy and Issue Management Team, formed in 2007, is tasked with developing and implementing a comprehensive climate change strategy and is advocating an international framework that establishes clear pathways to help slow, stop and reverse the rate of GHG emissions. In 2008, Dow announced its Energy Plan for America, which calls for a bold, comprehensive, bipartisan national energy policy that will help strengthen the economy, increase security, clean the environment through the reduction of GHG emissions, and revitalize U.S. manufacturing.
 
44
 
Environmental Remediation
Dow accrues the costs of remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on current law and existing technologies. The nature of such remediation includes, for example, the management of soil and groundwater contamination and the closure of contaminated landfills and other waste management facilities. In the case of landfills and other active waste management facilities, Dow recognizes the costs over the useful life of the facility. The accounting policies adopted to properly reflect the monetary impacts of environmental matters are discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To assess the impact on the financial statements, environmental experts review currently available facts to evaluate the probability and scope of potential liabilities. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. These liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Dow had an accrued liability of $290 million at December 31, 2008, related to the remediation of current or former Dow-owned sites. The liability related to remediation at December 31, 2007 was $294 million.
 
In addition to current and former Dow-owned sites, under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws (hereafter referred to collectively as Superfund Law), Dow is liable for remediation of other hazardous waste sites where Dow allegedly disposed of, or arranged for the treatment or disposal of, hazardous substances. Because Superfund Law imposes joint and several liability upon each party at a site, Dow has evaluated its potential liability in light of the number of other companies that also have been named potentially responsible parties (PRPs) at each site, the estimated apportionment of costs among all PRPs, and the financial ability and commitment of each to pay its expected share. The Companys remaining liability for the remediation of Superfund sites at December 31, 2008 was $22 million ($28 million at December 31, 2007). The Company has not recorded any third-party recovery related to these sites as a receivable.
 
Information regarding environmental sites is provided below:
The Companys manufacturing sites in Freeport, Texas, and Midland, Michigan, are the sites for which the Company has the largest environmental remediation accruals. From the start of operations at the Freeport site in the 1940s until the mid-1970s, manufacturing wastes were typically placed in on-site pits and landfills. The resulting soil and groundwater contamination is being assessed and remediated under the provisions of the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA), in concert with the state of Texas. At December 31, 2008, the Company had an accrual of $25 million ($37 million at December 31, 2007) related to environmental remediation at the Freeport manufacturing site. In 2008, $5 million ($6 million in 2007) was spent on environmental remediation at the Freeport site.
 
Similar to the Freeport site, in the early days of operations at the Midland site, manufacturing wastes were usually disposed of on-site, resulting in soil and groundwater contamination, which has been contained and managed on-site under a series of RCRA permits and regulatory agreements The most recent Hazardous Waste Operating License for the Midland site, issued in 2003, also included provisions for the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination from historic Midland site operations. The scope of the investigation includes Midland area soils; Tittabawassee and Saginaw River sediment and floodplain soils; and Saginaw Bay, and requires the Company to conduct interim response actions. See Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2008, the Company had an accrual of $35 million ($36 million at December 31, 2007) for environmental remediation and investigation associated with the Midland site. In 2008, the Company spent $36 million ($52 million in 2007) on environmental remediation at the Midland site.
.
 
45
 
 
In total, the Companys accrued liability for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs was $312 million at December 31, 2008, compared with $322 million at the end of 2007. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $140 million in 2008, $92 million in 2007 and $125 million in 2006. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $193 million in 2008, $189 million in 2007 and $193 million in 2006.
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Introduction
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbides premises, and Union Carbides responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem). In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbides products.
 
Influenced by the bankruptcy filings of numerous defendants in asbestos-related litigation and the prospects of various forms of state and national legislative reform, the rate at which plaintiffs filed asbestos-related suits against various companies, including Union Carbide and Amchem, increased in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003. Since then, the rate of filing has significantly abated. Union Carbide expects more asbestos-related suits to be filed against Union Carbide and Amchem in the future, and will aggressively defend or reasonably resolve, as appropriate, both pending and future claims.
 
The table below provides information regarding asbestos-related claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem:
Plaintiffs lawyers often sue dozens or even hundreds of defendants in individual lawsuits on behalf of hundreds or even thousands of claimants. As a result, the damages alleged are not expressly identified as to Union Carbide, Amchem or any other particular defendant, even when specific damages are alleged with respect to a specific disease or injury. In fact, there are no personal injury cases in which only Union Carbide and/or Amchem are the sole named defendants. For these reasons and based upon Union Carbides litigation and settlement experience, Union Carbide does not consider the damages alleged against Union Carbide and Amchem to be a meaningful factor in its determination of any potential asbestos-related liability.
Estimating the Liability
Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
 
In November 2006, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed
 
46
 
and analyzed data through October 31, 2006 and concluded that the experience from 2004 through 2006 was sufficient for the purpose of forecasting future filings and values of asbestos claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem, and could be used in place of previous assumptions to update the January 2005 study. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2006, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2021 was estimated to be between approximately $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. As in its January 2003 and January 2005 studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2006 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
Based on ARPCs December 2006 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2006 which covered the 15-year period ending in 2021 (excluding future defense and processing costs). The reduction was $177 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income.
 
In November 2007, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides 2007 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2006 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2007. In December 2007, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, Union Carbide determined that no change to the accrual was required. At December 31, 2007, Union Carbides asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $1.1 billion.
 
In November 2008, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2006 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2008. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2008, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2023 was estimated to be between $952 million and $1.2 billion. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2008 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
In December 2008, based on ARPCs December 2008 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $952 million, which covered the 15-year period ending 2023, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $54 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2008, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $934 million.
 
At December 31, 2008, approximately 21 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 79 percent related to future claims. At December 31, 2007, approximately 31 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 69 percent related to future claims.
Defense and Resolution Costs
The following table provides information regarding defense and resolution costs related to asbestos-related claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem:
The average resolution payment per asbestos claimant and the rate of new claim filings has fluctuated both up and down since the beginning of 2001. Union Carbides management expects such fluctuations to continue in the future based upon a number of factors, includingthe number and type of claims settled in a particular period, the jurisdictions in which such claims arose, and the extent to which any proposed legislative reform related to asbestos litigation is being considered.
 
 
Union Carbide expenses defense costs as incurred. The pretax impact for defense and resolution costs, net of insurance, was $53 million in 2008, $84 million in 2007 and $45 million in 2006, and was reflected in Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income.
 
47
 
 
Insurance Receivables
At December 31, 2002, Union Carbide increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion, substantially exhausting its asbestos product liability coverage. The insurance receivable related to the asbestos liability was determined by Union Carbide after a thorough review of applicable insurance policies and the 1985 Wellington Agreement, to which Union Carbide and many of its liability insurers are signatory parties, as well as other insurance settlements, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, and taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers. The Wellington Agreement and other agreements with insurers are designed to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of Union Carbides insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise.
 
In September 2003, Union Carbide filed a comprehensive insurance coverage case, now proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, seeking to confirm its rights to insurance for various asbestos claims and to facilitate an orderly and timely collection of insurance proceeds. This lawsuit was filed against insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place with Union Carbide regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage, in order to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of such insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. Although the lawsuit is continuing, through the end of 2008, Union Carbide had reached settlements with several of the carriers involved in this litigation.
 
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $403 million at December 31, 2008 and $467 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage.
 
In addition to the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability, Union Carbide had receivables for defense and resolution costs submitted to insurance carriers for reimbursement as follows:
After a review of its insurance policies, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, after taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers; existing insurance settlements; and the advice of outside counsel with respect to the applicable insurance coverage law relating to the terms and conditions of its insurance policies, Union Carbide continues to believe that its recorded receivable for insurance recoveries from all insurance carriers is probable of collection.
Summary
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable described above were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
 
Because of the uncertainties described above, Union Carbides management cannot estimate the full range of the cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims facing Union Carbide and Amchem. Union Carbides management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of Union Carbides asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on Union Carbides results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of Union Carbide.
 
It is the opinion of Dows management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company.
 
48
 
Matters Involving the Formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals
Introduction
On December 13, 2007, the Company and Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) (PIC) of Kuwait, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC), announced plans to form a 50:50 global petrochemicals joint venture. The proposed joint venture, K-Dow Petrochemicals (K-Dow), was expected to have revenues of more than $11 billion and employ more than 5,000 people worldwide.
 
On November 28, 2008, the Company entered into a Joint Venture Formation Agreement (the JVFA) with PIC that provided for the establishment of K-Dow. To form the joint venture, the Company would transfer by way of contribution and sale to K-Dow, assets used in the research, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polycarbonate compounds and blends, ethyleneamines, ethanolamines, and related licensing and catalyst technologies; and K-Dow would assume certain related liabilities. PIC would receive a 50 percent equity interest in K-Dow in exchange for the payment by PIC of the initial purchase price, estimated to be $7.5 billion. The purchase price was subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Failure to Close
On December 31, 2008, the Company received a written notice from PIC with respect to the JVFA advising the Company of PICs position that certain conditions to closing were not satisfied and, therefore, PIC was not obligated to close the transaction. On January 2, 2009, PIC refused to close the K-Dow transaction in accordance with the JVFA. The Company disagrees with the characterizations and conclusions expressed by PIC in the written notice and the Company has informed PIC that it breached the JVFA. On January 6, 2009, the Company announced that it would seek to fully enforce its rights under the terms of the JVFA and various related agreements.
 
Although the Company currently is prepared to close the K-Dow transaction immediately despite PICs breach, the Company has been approached by other interested parties about joint venturing with the Company for the businesses originally intended to be part of K-Dow. The Company is in the process of seeking an alternative joint venture partner for these businesses.
Arbitration
The Companys claims against PIC are subject to an arbitration agreement between the parties, which provides for arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Pursuant to the arbitration agreement, the Company delivered a Dispute Notice to PIC on January 8, 2009, which commenced a 30-day period for negotiations to resolve the dispute informally. That period expired on February 11, 2009. On February 18, 2009, the Company initiated arbitration proceedings against PIC alleging that PIC breached the JVFA by failing to close the transaction on January 2, 2009. The Company is seeking damages in excess of $2.5 billion in the arbitration proceeding.
 
49
 
Matters Involving the Acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company
Introduction
On July 10, 2008, the Company and Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) for the acquisition of Rohm and Haas for $78 in cash per share of Rohm and Haas common stock (the Merger). The Merger did not close in January 2009, as originally anticipated, in light of the Companys determination that recent material developments had created unacceptable uncertainties with respect to the funding and economics of the combined Dow and Rohm and Haas enterprise. This assessment was based on several macro-economic factors such as the continued crisis in global financial and credit markets and unprecedented demand destruction, combined with the failure of PIC to fulfill its obligation to close the K-Dow joint venture transaction and fund the initial purchase price on January 2, 2009.
Litigation
On January 26, 2009, Rohm and Haas commenced an action in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware to compel the Company to acquire Rohm and Haas for $78 in cash per share of Rohm and Haas common stock (plus a ticking fee commencing on January 10, 2009). The complaint (the Complaint) in the action alleges that all conditions to the Companys obligation to close the Merger were met on January 23, 2009 and that the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, was required to close the Merger within two business days thereafter, ., by January 27, 2009. The Complaint further alleges that the Company advised Rohm and Haas on January 25, 2009 that it would not close the Merger on or by January 27, 2009, and that the Company knowingly and intentionally breached the Merger Agreement.
i.e
 
On January 27, 2009, the Court determined to expedite proceedings in the case and ordered that the trial commence on March 9, 2009. The trial will relate to the issue of whether the Court should order specific performance and thus require the Company to close the Merger. The Court also stated that it strongly encouraged the parties to focus on a business solution to the dispute.
 
On February 3, 2009, the Company filed its answer (the Answer) to the Complaint. The Answer denied that all conditions to closing had been met as of January 23, 2009, noting that the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) action on January 23, 2009 was only a provisional acceptance of the proposed consent order and not final approval, and that the FTC reserves discretion to reject the proposed consent order after the close of the public comment period. The Answer denied that Rohm and Haas is entitled to a decree of specific performance, and asserted affirmative defenses of frustration of purpose, commercial impracticability, impossibility of performance and undue hardship  all arising from the sudden and rapid economic and financial downturn, the dramatic falloff in the Companys earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, the risk of the Companys inability to comply with financial covenants contained in the bridge loan expected to provide temporary financing for the Merger, the risk of the Company losing access to the capital markets due to potential loss of its investment grade rating, and the collapse of the K-Dow joint venture. The Company also asserted that specific performance is not appropriate because Rohm and Haas has adequate remedies at law for any breach of the Merger Agreement.
Summary
Because of the uncertainties associated with the litigation described above, management cannot estimate the impact of the ultimate resolution of the litigation. It is the opinion of the Companys management that it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 
50
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Dow Chemical Company:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Dow Chemical Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity, comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule included in Item 15.  These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Dow Chemical Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Note U to the consolidated financial statements, the Company is involved in litigation related to an agreement to acquire Rohm and Haas Company. The Company has disclosed that it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of the litigation could have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
As discussed in Note A to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2006, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158.
/s/
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Deloitte & Touche
LLP
Midland, Michigan
February 17, 2009 (September 25, 2009 as to the effects of the retrospective adjustments disclosed in Notes A, T, and V)
 
51
 
 
52
 
 
53
 
 
54
 
 
55
 
 
56
 
Table of Contents
NOTE A  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries (Dow or the Company) were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and include the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of all majority-owned subsidiaries over which the Company exercises control and, when applicable, entities for which the Company has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in nonconsolidated affiliates (20-50 percent owned companies, joint ventures and partnerships) are accounted for on the equity basis.
Use of Estimates in Financial Statement Preparation
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Companys consolidated financial statements include amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Foreign Currency Translation
The local currency has been primarily used as the functional currency throughout the world. Translation gains and losses of those operations that use local currency as the functional currency are included in the consolidated balance sheets in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). Where the U.S. dollar is used as the functional currency, foreign currency gains and losses are reflected in income.
 
57
 
 
Environmental Matters
Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law and existing technologies. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment and remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Accruals for environmental liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheets in Other noncurrent obligations at undiscounted amounts. Accruals for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for environmental liabilities are recorded when it is probable that a recovery will be realized and are included in the consolidated balance sheets as Accounts and notes receivable - Other.
 
Environmental costs are capitalized if the costs extend the life of the property, increase its capacity, and/or mitigate or prevent contamination from future operations. Environmental costs are also capitalized in recognition of legal asset retirement obligations resulting from the acquisition, construction and/or normal operation of a long-lived asset. Costs related to environmental contamination treatment and cleanup are charged to expense. Estimated future incremental operations, maintenance and management costs directly related to remediation are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include time deposits and readily marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Financial Instruments
The Company calculates the fair value of financial instruments using quoted market prices whenever available. When quoted market prices are not available for various types of financial instruments (such as forwards, options and swaps), the Company uses standard pricing models with market-based inputs, which take into account the present value of estimated future cash flows.
 
The Company utilizes derivative instruments to manage exposures to currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rate risk. The fair values of all derivative instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are reported in income or AOCI, depending on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting treatment under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended and interpreted.
 
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in AOCI, to the extent the hedges are effective, until the underlying transactions are recognized in income. To the extent effective, gains and losses on derivative and nonderivative instruments used as hedges of the Companys net investment in foreign operations are recorded in AOCI as part of the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investment in foreign operations, if any, are recognized in income immediately.
 
Gains and losses on derivative instruments designated and qualifying as fair value hedging instruments, as well as the offsetting losses and gains on the hedged items, are reported in income in the same accounting period. Derivative instruments not designated as hedges are marked-to-market at the end of each accounting period with the results included in income.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The method of determining cost for each subsidiary varies among last-in, first-out (LIFO); first-in, first-out (FIFO); and average cost, and is used consistently from year to year.
Property
Land, buildings and equipment, including property under capital lease agreements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on the estimated service lives of depreciable assets and is calculated using the straight-line method. For most assets capitalized through 1996, the declining balance method was used. Fully depreciated assets are retained in property and accumulated depreciation accounts until they are removed from service. In the case of disposals, assets and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and the net amounts, less proceeds from disposal, are included in income.
Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The Company evaluates long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. When undiscounted future cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover an assets carrying amount, the asset is written down to its fair value. Long-lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale are classified as held and used until they are disposed of. Long-lived
 
58
 
assets to be disposed of by sale are classified as held for sale and are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, and depreciation is ceased.
Asset Retirement Obligations
The Company records asset retirement obligations as incurred and reasonably estimable, including obligations for which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the Company. The fair values of obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis and are accreted over time for the change in present value. Costs associated with the liabilities are capitalized and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of the asset, generally for periods of 10 years or less.
Investments
Investments in debt and marketable equity securities, including warrants, are classified as trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. Investments classified as trading are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in income. Those classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded in AOCI. Those classified as held-to-maturity are recorded at amortized cost. The cost of investments sold is determined by specific identification. The Company routinely reviews available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary declines in fair value below the cost basis, and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, the security is written down to fair value.
 
The excess of the cost of investments in subsidiaries over the values assigned to assets and liabilities is shown as goodwill and is subject to the impairment provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Absent any impairment indicators, recorded goodwill is tested annually for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, determined using a discounted cash flow method, with its carrying value.
Revenue
Sales are recognized when the revenue is realized or realizable, and has been earned. Approximately 98 percent of the Companys sales are related to sales of product. The remaining 2 percent are related to the Companys service offerings, insurance operations, and licensing of patents and technology. Revenue for product sales is recognized as risk and title to the product transfer to the customer, which usually occurs at the time shipment is made. Substantially all of the Companys products are sold FOB (free on board) shipping point or, with respect to countries other than the United States, an equivalent basis. As such, title to the product passes when the product is delivered to the freight carrier. Dows standard terms of delivery are included in its contracts of sale, order confirmation documents and invoices. Freight costs and any directly related associated costs of transporting finished product to customers are recorded as Cost of sales.
 
The Companys primary service offerings are in the form of contract manufacturing services and services associated with Dow AgroSciences termite solution, SENTRICON Termite Colony Elimination System. Revenue associated with these service offerings is recognized when services are rendered, according to contractual agreements.
 
Revenue related to the Companys insurance operations includes third-party insurance premiums, which are earned over the terms of the related insurance policies and reinsurance contracts. Revenue related to the initial licensing of patents and technology is recognized when earned; revenue related to running royalties is recognized according to licensee production levels.
Legal Costs
The Company expenses legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred.
Severance Costs
The Company routinely reviews its operations around the world in an effort to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and geographic areas. When the reviews result in a workforce reduction related to the shutdown of facilities or other optimization activities, severance benefits are provided to employees primarily under Dows ongoing benefit arrangements. These severance costs are accrued (under SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43) once management commits to a plan of termination including the number of employees to be terminated, their job classifications or functions, their locations and the expected completion date.
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted rates.
 
Annual tax provisions include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of prior year tax returns; however, the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued.
 
59
 
 
The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. The Company accrues for other tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. The current portion of uncertain income tax positions is included in Income taxes payable and the long-term portion is included in Other noncurrent obligations in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Provision is made for taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related companies to the extent that such earnings are not deemed to be permanently invested.
Earnings per Common Share
The calculation of earnings per common share is based on the weighted-average number of the Companys common shares outstanding for the applicable period. The calculation of diluted earnings per common share reflects the effect of all potential dilutive common shares that were outstanding during the respective periods, unless the effect of doing so is antidilutive.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Accounting for Noncontrolling Interests
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51. The Statement established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary and for deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The Statement was effective January 1, 2009 for the Company. The retrospective presentation and disclosure requirements outlined by SFAS No. 160 are reflected for all periods presented.
In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 160, 
 
The implementation of SFAS No. 160 revised all previous references to minority interests in the consolidated financial statements to noncontrolling interests, and resulted in the following changes:
 
Other Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN No. 48 was effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48. The cumulative effect of adoption was a $290 million reduction of retained earnings. See Note S for further information on income taxes.
 
Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). The Statement, which was effective December 31, 2006 for the Company, requires employers to recognize the funded status of defined benefit postretirement plans as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and to recognize changes in that funded status through comprehensive income. See Note M for further information on pension plans and other postretirement benefits.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, 
 
60
 
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements and was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS No. 157-2, which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the portion of SFAS No. 157 that was not delayed, and since the Companys existing fair value measurements are consistent with the guidance of the Statement, the partial adoption of the Statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Since the Companys existing fair value measurements for pension assets are also consistent with the guidance of the Statement, the adoption of the Statement for pension and postretirement plans at the December 31, 2008 measurement date did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In accordance with FSP FAS No. 157-2, the provisions of SFAS No. 157 were not applied to the long-lived asset impairments described in Note B or to the goodwill impairments described in Note G. The Company does not expect the adoption of the Statement for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on January 1, 2009 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note I for expanded disclosures about fair value measurements.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133. The Statement requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities. The Statement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, which is January 1, 2009 for the Company; early adoption is encouraged. The Companys enhanced disclosures are included in Note H.
 
In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 133-1 and FIN No. 45-4, Disclosures About Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161. The FSP amends and enhances the disclosure requirements for sellers of credit derivatives (including hybrid instruments that have embedded credit derivatives) and financial guarantees. The FSP was effective for reporting periods ending after November 15, 2008. The Company currently does not hold any of these instruments, thus the FSP did not have an impact on the disclosures in the Companys consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2008.
 
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 157-3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active. The FSP clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, when the market for a financial asset is not active. The FSP was effective upon issuance, including reporting for prior periods for which financial statements had not been issued. The adoption of the FSP did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note I for further information on fair value measurements.
 
is effective in the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2008, requires additional disclosures concerning transfers of financial assets. The FSP also requires additional disclosures concerning an enterprises involvement with variable interest entities and qualifying special purpose entities under certain conditions, none of which apply to the Company. The ompanys required disclosures concerning transfers of financial assets are included in Note J.
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 140-4 and FIN No. 46R-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities. The FSP, which
C
 
In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF) Issue No. 99-20-1, Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20. The FSP provides clarification on other-than-temporary impairment assessments for securitized assets within the scope of EITF Issue No. 99-20, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets. The FSP is effective in the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2008. The implementation of the EITF did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Emerging Issues Task Force (
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted
Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R), to establish revised principles and requirements for how entities will recognize and measure assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination. The Statement is effective for business combinations completed on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company will apply the guidance of the Statement to business combinations completed on or after January 1, 2009.
In December 2007, the FASB revised SFAS No. 141, 
 
In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. The FSP amends the factors an entity should consider in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of recognized intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The FSP must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company will apply the guidance of the FSP to intangible assets acquired on or after January 1, 2009.
 
61
 
 
In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement). The FSP applies to convertible debt securities that, upon conversion, may be settled by the issuer fully or partially in cash. The FSP, which is effective January 1, 2009 for the Company, is to be applied retrospectively to all past periods presented. The Company has not issued convertible debt securities; therefore, the FSP is not anticipated to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF Issue No. 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities. The FSP addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class method. The FSP affects entities that accrue dividends on share-based payment awards during the awards service period when the dividends do not need to be returned if the employees forfeit the award. This FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, which is January 1, 2009 for the Company. The Company does not have share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends, thus this FSP is not anticipated to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In September 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF with respect to EITF Issue No. 08-5, Issuers Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair Value With a Third-Party Credit Enhancement. The Issue, which is effective in the first reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, instructs issuers of a liability with a third-party credit enhancement that is inseparable from the liability to treat the liability and the credit enhancement as two units of accounting, and provide related disclosures. The Company does not carry any liabilities with inseparable third-party credit enhancements, thus the Issue is not anticipated to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the with respect to EITF Issue No. 08-6, Equity Method Investment Considerations. The Issue is effective in the first reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is January 1, 2009 for the Company. The Issue addresses accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving equity method investments, in light of SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160. The Company will apply the guidance of the Issue to equity method investments acquired on or after January 1, 2009.
EITF
 
which is January 1, 2009 for the Companyexceptused in research and development activities, that are not intended for active use, but rather will be held to prevent others from obtaining access to the asset. The Issue requires such assets to be treated as separate units of accounting and provides guidance on determining the useful life of such assets. The Company will apply the guidance of the Issue to defensive intangible assets acquired on or after January 1, 2009.
In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF with respect to EITF Issue No. 08-7, Accounting For Defensive Intangible Assets. The Issue, which is effective in the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008,
, applies to acquired intangible assets,
for intangible assets
 
In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF with respect to EITF Issue No. 08-8, Accounting for an Instrument (or an Embedded Feature) With a Settlement Amount That Is Based on the Stock of an Entitys Consolidated Subsidiary. The Issue is effective in the first reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is January 1, 2009 for the Company. The Company does not have instruments of this nature, thus the Issue is not anticipated to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 132R-1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. The FSP requires new disclosures on investment policies and strategies, categories of plan assets, fair value measurements of plan assets, and significant concentrations of risk, and is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009, with earlier application permitted. The provisions of the FSP are not required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative purposes.
NOTE B  RESTRUCTURING
2008 Restructuring
On December 5, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan as part of a series of actions to advance the Companys strategy and respond to the recent, severe economic downturn. The restructuring plan includes the shutdown of a number of facilities and a global workforce reduction, which are targeted to be completed by the end of 2010. As a result of the shutdowns and global workforce reduction, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $785 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $336 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $128 million and severance costs of $321 million. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as shown in the following table, which also reflects adjustments made in 2008 to the 2007 and 2006 restructuring charges, as discussed in the sections titled 2007 Restructuring and 2006 Restructuring:
 
 
 
62
 
 
Details regarding the components of the 2008 restructuring charges are discussed below:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Other Assets
The restructuring charges related to the write-down or write-off of assets in 2008 totaled $336 million and included the impact of plant closures and impairments of $288 million. The most significant write-downs were related to Dows facilities located in Oyster Creek, Freeport, Seadrift and Texas City, Texas; Pittsburg, California; Terneuzen, The Netherlands; Varennes, Quebec, Canada; Plaquemine, Louisiana; Aratu, Brazil; Kings Lynn and Wilton, England; assets related to the pending sale of the automotive sealants business in Europe; and project investment costs related to a potential joint venture in Oman. Details regarding these write-downs or write-offs are as follows:
 
 
63
 
 
The restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 also included the write-off of capital project spending ($13 million); spare parts ($9 million); catalysts ($6 million) associated with plant closures; other assets ($5 million); as well as a loss on the sale of inventory ($15 million) associated with the divestiture of the automotive sealants business in Europe. These write-offs were related to the businesses involved in the shutdown of assets and were therefore reflected in the results of various operating segments.
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The restructuring charges for costs associated with exit or disposal activities totaled $128 million in 2008 and included pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $88 million reflected in Corporate; and environmental remediation and asbestos abatement of $40 million primarily impacting Basic Chemicals and Corporate.
Severance Costs
As a result of the Companys decision to shut down assets around the world and implement a global workforce reduction, the restructuring charges included severance of $321 million for the separation of approximately 3,000 employees under the terms of Dows ongoing benefit arrangements, primarily over the next two years. These costs were charged against Corporate. At December 31, 2008, severance of approximately $2 million had been paid to 35 employees and a liability of $319 million remained for approximately 2,965 employees.
 
The following table summarizes the activities related to the Companys restructuring reserve:
Dow expects to incur future costs related to its restructuring activities, as the Company continually looks for ways to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of its operations, and to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and across geographic areas. Future costs are expected to include demolition costs related to the closed facilities, which will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits, related to its other optimization activities, and pension plan settlement costs. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
2007 Restructuring
On December 3, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan that included the shutdown of a number of assets and organizational changes within targeted support functions to improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the Companys global operations. As a result of these shutdowns and organizational changes, which are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2009, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges totaling $590 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $422 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $82 million and severance costs of $86 million. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as shown in the following table, which also reflects adjustments made in 2007 to the 2006 restructuring charges, as discussed in the section titled 2006 Restructuring:
 
64
 
Details regarding the components of the 2007 restructuring charges are discussed below:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Other Intangible Assets and Equity Investments
The restructuring charges related to the write-down or write-off of assets and equity investments in 2007 totaled $422 million and included the impact of plant closures and impairments of $273 million. The most significant plant write-downs affected Dows facilities located in Lauterbourg, France; Camaari, Brazil; Aratu, Brazil; Tarragona, Spain; Hahnville, Louisiana; and Berre, France; and assets related to the exit of the automotive sealants business in North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Details regarding these write-downs are as follows:
 
 
65
 
 
In addition to the write-downs described above, the restructuring charges for plant closures included $66 million related to the shutdown of several small production facilities and the closure of certain storage wells in Canada.
 
The restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2007 also included the write-down of investments in nonconsolidated affiliates of $99 million. The most significant write-downs were related to the Companys investment in Ptromont and Company, Limited Partnership (Ptromont) and Dow Reichhold Specialty Latex LLC. Details regarding these write-downs are as follows:
 
In addition to the write-downs described above, the restructuring charges for investments in nonconsolidated affiliates included $11 million related to the dissolution of two smaller joint ventures.
 
The restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2007 also included the write-off of capital project spending ($37 million), and trademarks and patents ($2 million) which the Company determined to be of no further value; as well as spare parts and catalysts ($11 million) associated with the plant closures. These write-offs were principally related to the businesses involved in the shutdown of assets and were therefore reflected in the results of various operating segments.
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The restructuring charges for costs associated with exit or disposal activities totaled $82 million in 2007 and included contract termination fees of $53 million, pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $15 million, environmental remediation of $7 million and $7 million of other related costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, an additional $5 million was recorded for environmental remediation and reflected in Corporate.
 
Contract termination fees of $53 million represented the Companys best estimate of the fair value to negotiate the settlement of the early cancellation of several service and supply agreements principally related to the shutdown of manufacturing assets within the Performance Systems and Health and Agricultural Sciences segments. In the fourth quarter of 2008, based on negotiated settlements related to contract termination fees, the contract termination fees associated with the 2007 restructuring charge were increased $5 million and reflected in the Performance Systems ($2 million) and Health and Agricultural Sciences ($3 million) segments.
Severance Costs
As a result of the Companys decision to shut down assets around the world, and complete other workforce optimization activities, the restructuring charges recorded in 2007 included severance of $86 million for the separation of approximately 978 employees under the terms of Dows ongoing benefit arrangements, primarily over two years. These costs were charged against Corporate. At December 31, 2007, severance of approximately $1 million had been paid to 12 employees and a liability of $85 million remained for approximately 966 employees. During 2008, severance of $47 million was paid to 439 employees, bringing the total payments against the program to $48 million paid to 451 employees. At December 31, 2008, a liability of $37 million (including foreign currency impact) remained for approximately 527 employees.
 
66
 
The following table summarizes the activities related to the Companys restructuring reserve:
2006 Restructuring
On August 29, 2006, the Companys Board of Directors approved a plan to shut down a number of assets around the world as the Company continued its drive to improve the competitiveness of its global operations. As a consequence of these shutdowns, which are scheduled to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009, and other optimization activities, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges totaling $591 million in 2006. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $346 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $172 million and severance costs of $73 million. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as follows:
Details regarding the components of the restructuring charges are discussed below:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Other Intangible Assets
The restructuring charges related to the write-down or write-off of assets in 2006 totaled $346 million and included the impact of plant closures of $269 million. The most significant plant closures affected Dows facilities in Porto Marghera, Italy, and Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, and Sarnia, Ontario, Canada. Details regarding these shutdowns are as follows:
 
 
67
 
 
Company shut down the facilities at the end of October 2006, resulting in a $74 million write-down of the net book value of the related buildings, machinery and equipment against the Basic Chemicals segment in the third quarter of 2006.
 
The closure of manufacturing plants in 2006 resulted in a $24 million write-down of the net book value of the machinery and equipment in the third quarter of 2006 (with $10 million in Basic Plastics, and $14 million in Corporate).
 
In addition to the larger shutdowns described above, the restructuring charges for plant closures included $56 million related to the shutdown of several small production facilities, a terminal, and a research and development facility.
 
The restructuring charges in the third quarter of 2006 also included the write-off of capital project spending ($47 million) and technology assets ($18 million) which the Company determined to be of no further value, as well as spare parts and catalysts ($12 million) associated with the plant closures. These write-offs were principally related to the businesses involved in the shutdown of assets and were therefore reflected in the results of various operating segments.
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The restructuring charges for costs associated with exit or disposal activities totaled $172 million in 2006 and included contract termination fees of $65 million, environmental remediation of $60 million, pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $33 million, and asbestos abatement of $14 million.
 
Contract termination fees of $65 million represented the Companys best estimate of the fair value to negotiate the settlement of the early cancellation of several supply agreements principally related to the shutdown of manufacturing assets primarily within the Performance Products segment. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company reached agreements with certain suppliers regarding the early cancellation of supply agreements, resulting in a $4 million reduction of the restructuring reserve for contract termination fees. The adjustment was credited against the Performance Products segment.
 
The restructuring charges for environmental remediation of $60 million and asbestos abatement of $14 million principally related to the shutdown of the Companys facilities in Canada. The charges were therefore reflected in various operating segments. In the first quarter of 2008, a reduction of $5 million was recorded against the reserve and included in Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income. In the fourth quarter of 2008, an additional reduction of $3 million was recorded against the reserve for environmental remediation.
 
According to the restructuring plan for Canada, the chlor-alkali and direct chlorination ethylene dichloride plants in Fort Saskatchewan were shut down at the end of October 2006; the Sarnia site will cease all production by the end of the first quarter of 2009. As such, for purposes of calculating the Companys obligation associated with Dows defined benefit plans in Canada, the expected years of future service of active employees has been significantly reduced. In addition, the Company is obligated to provide certain termination benefits. As a result, the restructuring charge included pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $33 million in 2006. These costs were reflected in Corporate.
Severance Costs
As a result of the Companys plans to shut down assets around the world, and conduct other optimization activities principally in Europe, the restructuring charges recorded in 2006 included net charges for severance of $73 million for the separation of approximately 810 employees under the terms of Dows ongoing benefit arrangements, primarily over two years. These costs were charged against Corporate. At December 31, 2006, severance of $4 million had been paid to 115 employees and a liability of $69 million remained for approximately 695 employees. In the fourth quarter of 2007, a reduction of $8 million was recorded against the estimated program costs. During 2007, severance of $25 million was paid to 245 employees; during 2008, severance of $17 million was paid to 195 employees, bringing the total payments against the program to $46 million paid to 555 employees. In the fourth quarter of 2008, a reduction of $3 million was recorded against the reserve. At December 31, 2008, a liability of $14 million (including foreign currency impact) remained for approximately 215 employees.
 
68
 
The following table summarizes the activities related to the Companys restructuring reserve:
NOTE C  ACQUISITIONS
Acquisition-Related Expenses
During 2008, pretax charges totaling $49 million were recorded for legal expenses and other transaction costs related to the pending acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company; these charges are reflected in Corporate. These charges were expensed in anticipation of a 2009 closing of the acquisition and the application of revised SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations.
Acquisition of Wolff Walsrode
Consistent with the Companys strategy to invest in its Performance businesses, the Company announced on December 18, 2006, that it had reached an agreement with the Bayer Group to acquire Wolff Walsrode AG and certain related affiliates and assets (Wolff Walsrode), subject to regulatory approval. Wolff Walsrode, headquartered in Bomlitz, Germany, specializes in cellulose derivatives, food casings and site services. Following approval from the European Commission on June 20, 2007, Dow acquired Wolff Walsrode on June 30, 2007 for a cash purchase price of approximately $603 million.
 
On July 2, 2007, the Company announced the creation of a new specialty business unit, Dow Wolff Cellulosics, which combined the newly acquired Wolff Walsrode with Dows Water Soluble Polymers business. Dow Wolff Cellulosics encompasses cellulosics and related chemistries, providing application formulation expertise and other technical services to a broad range of strategic industry sectors, including construction, paint, personal care, pharmaceuticals, food and a number of specialty industrial applications.
 
69
 
 
The following table summarizes the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition, as well as adjustments that have been made primarily as a result of final valuations.
(2) See Note G for additional information.
The Company evaluated the materiality of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and results of operations, individually and in the aggregate at June 30, 2007, and concluded that such assets, liabilities and results of operations were not material to the consolidated financial statements.
 
Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, the results of Wolff Walsrodes operations were reflected in the Companys consolidated income statement.
Purchased In-Process Research and Development
Purchased in-process research and development (IPR&D) represents the value assigned in a business combination to acquired research and development projects that, as of the date of the acquisition, had not established technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. Amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting these criteria must be charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price of the business combination.
 
The Company recorded pretax charges totaling $44 million in 2008 and $57 million in 2007 for IPR&D projects associated with several recent acquisitions. The estimated values assigned to the IPR&D projects were determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow model and are shown below:
 
70
 
IPR&D charges are shown as Purchased in-process research and development charges in the consolidated statements of income. The 2008 IPR&D charges were related to projects within the Health and Agricultural Sciences segment. In 2007, IPR&D charges of $50 million related to projects within the Health and Agricultural Sciences segment; $7 million related to IPR&D acquired from Wolff Walsrode and impacted the results for the Electronic and Specialty Materials segment.
NOTE D  INVENTORIES
The following table provides a breakdown of inventories:
The reserves reducing inventories from a FIFO basis to a LIFO basis amounted to $627 million at December 31, 2008 and $1,511 million at December 31, 2007. Inventories valued on a LIFO basis, principally hydrocarbon and U.S. chemicals and plastics product inventories, represented 32 percent of the total inventories at December 31, 2008 and 34 percent of total inventories at December 31, 2007.
 
A reduction of certain inventories resulted in the liquidation of some of the Companys LIFO inventory layers, decreasing pretax income $45 million in 2008 and increasing pretax income $321 million in 2007 and $97 million in 2006.
NOTE E  PROPERTY
NOTE F  NONCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES AND RELATED COMPANY TRANSACTIONS
The Companys investments in related companies accounted for by the equity method (nonconsolidated affiliates) were $3,204 million at December 31, 2008 and $3,089 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of the Companys investments in nonconsolidated affiliates was $90 million more than its share of the investees net assets, exclusive of additional differences for Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), MEGlobal, Equipolymers and Americas Styrenics LLC, which are discussed separately below. This difference was $64 million at December 31, 2007. Dividends received from the Companys nonconsolidated affiliates were $836 million in 2008, $774 million in 2007 and $616 million in 2006.
 
71
 
 
On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning, in which the Company is a 50 percent shareholder, voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (see Note K). As a result, the Company fully reserved its investment in Dow Corning and reserved its 50 percent share of equity earnings from that time through the third quarter of 2000. In November 2000, following affirmation of the Bankruptcy Courts order confirming the Joint Plan of Reorganization (the Joint Plan), the Company reviewed the value of its investment in Dow Corning, revised its assessment of the recoverability of its investment, and determined that it had adequately provided for the other-than-temporary decline associated with the bankruptcy. On June 1, 2004, Dow Cornings Joint Plan became effective and Dow Corning emerged from bankruptcy. Since May 1995, a difference between the Companys 50 percent share of the underlying equity of Dow Corning and the carrying value of this investment has existed. The Company considers the difference to be permanent. The difference was $227 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Companys investment in MEGlobal was $265 million less than the Companys proportionate share of MEGlobals underlying net assets ($274 million less at December 31, 2007). This amount represents the difference between the value of certain assets of the joint venture and the Companys related valuation on a U.S. GAAP basis, of which $75 million is being amortized over the remaining useful lives of the assets and $190 million represents the Companys share of the joint ventures goodwill.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Companys investment in Equipolymers was $9 million less than the Companys proportionate share of Equipolymers underlying net assets ($48 million less at December 31, 2007). This amount represents the difference between the value of certain assets of the joint venture and the Companys related valuation on a U.S. GAAP basis, all of which is being amortized over the remaining useful lives of the assets.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Companys investment in Americas Styrenics LLC was $150 million less than the Companys proportionate share of Americas Styrenics LLCs underlying net assets. This amount represents the difference between the book value of assets contributed to the joint venture by the Company at the time of formation and the Companys 50 percent share of the total recorded value of the joint ventures assets. This difference is being amortized over the remaining useful lives of the assets.
 
All of the nonconsolidated affiliates in which the Company has investments are privately held companies; therefore, quoted market prices are not available.
Principal Nonconsolidated Affiliates
Dows principal nonconsolidated affiliates and the Companys direct or indirect ownership interest for each at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows.
The Companys investment in its principal nonconsolidated affiliates was $2,439 million at December 31, 2008 and $2,488 million at December 31, 2007. Equity earnings from these companies were $824 million in 2008, $1,072 million in 2007 and $883 million in 2006. The summarized financial information presented below represents the combined accounts (at 100 percent) of the principal nonconsolidated affiliates.
 
72
 
The Company has service agreements with some of these entities, including contracts to manage the operations of manufacturing sites and the construction of new facilities; licensing and technology agreements; and marketing, sales, purchase and lease agreements.
 
Excess ethylene glycol produced in Dows plants in the United States and Europe is sold to MEGlobal and represented 2 percent of total net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006. In addition, the Company sells ethylene to MEGlobal as a raw material for its ethylene glycol plants in Canada. The impact of these sales to MEGlobal by operating segment is summarized below:
Overall, transactions with other nonconsolidated affiliates and balances due to and due from these entities were not material to the consolidated financial statements.
 
73
 
NOTE G  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table shows changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2008, by operating segment:
On May 1, 2007, Dow Chemical Company Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired Hyperlast Limited, British Vitas polyurethane systems business, for $151 million. The recording of the acquisition resulted in goodwill of $71 million and intangible assets of $62 million as shown below. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Wolff Walsrode. The recording of the acquisition resulted in goodwill of $207 million and intangible assets of $156 million as shown below. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. See Note C for additional information related to purchase price adjustments.
 
74
 
On August 1, 2007, Dow AgroSciences acquired the corn seed business of Agromen Tecnologia Ltda. for $116 million. The recording of the acquisition resulted in goodwill of $59 million and intellectual property of $14 million with a weighted-average amortization period of six years. All of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Goodwill Impairments
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Automotive Systems reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Automotive Systems reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to the severe downturn in the automotive industry and the future projections for the business. As a result, an estimated impairment loss of $209 million was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 against the Performance Systems segment. Also as a result of the annual tests, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Polypropylene reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Polypropylene reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to demand decline in North America and Western Europe, as well as significant new industry capacity which came on-stream in 2008 and additional industry capacity which is expected in 2009. As a result, an impairment loss of $30 million was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 against the Basic Plastics segment. The second step to determine the implied fair value of goodwill for the Automotive Systems reporting unit will be finalized in the first quarter of 2009 and any adjustment to the estimated impairment loss based on completion of the allocation process will be recognized at that time.
Other Intangible Assets
The following table provides information regarding the Companys other intangible assets:
During 2008, the Company acquired software for $98 million. The weighted-average amortization period for the acquired software is five years.
 
75
 
 
The following table provides information regarding amortization expense:
Total estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal years is as follows:
NOTE H  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments
The Companys investments in marketable securities are primarily classified as available-for-sale.
The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of the Companys investments in debt securities:
 
76
 
The following tables provide the fair value and gross unrealized losses of the Companys investments that were deemed to be temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008 and 2007, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:
Portfolio managers regularly review all of the Companys holdings to determine if any investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. The analysis includes reviewing the amount of the temporary impairment, as well as the length of time it has been impaired. In addition, specific guidelines for each instrument type are followed to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.
 
For debt securities, the credit rating of the issuer, current credit rating trends, the trends of the issuers overall sector and the length of time the security has been in a loss position are considered in determining impairment.
 
For equity securities, the Companys investments are primarily in Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 companies; however, the Company also allows additional investments in companies outside of the S&P 500. The increase in temporarily impaired equity securities from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 relates to the overall decline in the equity markets in late 2008. The Company considers the volatility of the stock, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, value and growth expectations, and overall market and sector fundamentals, as well as technical analysis, in determining impairment. In 2008, other-than-temporary impairment write-downs were $42 million.
 
The aggregate cost of the Companys cost method investments totaled $104 million at December 31, 2008 and $102 million at December 31, 2007. Due to the nature of these investments, the fair market value is not readily determinable. These investments are reviewed for impairment indicators. There were no material impairment indicators or circumstances at December 31, 2008 that would result in a material adjustment to the cost basis of these investments. Of the $102 million cost method investments at December 31, 2007, a $3 million impairment was recorded in 2008 based on the review of the impairment indicators.
 
77
 
 
The following table summarizes the fair value of financial instruments at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007:
Risk Management
Dow's business operations give rise to market risk exposure due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and other market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks effectively, the Company enters into hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, which enable it to mitigate the adverse effects of financial market risk. Derivatives used for this purpose are designated as cash flow, fair value or net foreign investment hedges per SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," where appropriate. SFAS No. 133 requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. A secondary objective is to add value by creating additional nonspecific exposures within established limits and policies; derivatives used for this purpose are not designated as hedges per SFAS No. 133. The potential impact of creating such additional exposures is not material to the Company's results.
 
The Companys risk management program for interest rate, foreign currency and commodity risks is based on fundamental, mathematical and technical models that take into account the implicit cost of hedging. Risks created by derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of positions are strictly monitored at all times, using value at risk and stress tests.Credit risk arising from these contracts is not significant because the Company minimizes counterparty concentration, deals primarily with major financial institutions of solid credit quality, and the majority of its hedging transactions mature in less than three months. In addition, the Company minimizes concentrations of credit risk through its global orientation in diverse businesses with a large number of diverse customers and suppliers. It is the Companys policy not to have credit-risk-related contingent features in its derivative instruments. The Company does not anticipate losses from credit risk and the net cash requirements arising from risk management activities are not expected to be material in 2009. No significant concentration of credit risk existed at December 31, 2008.
 
 
The Company reviews its overall financial strategies and the impacts from using derivatives in its risk management program with the Companys Office of the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors Audit Committee and revises its strategies as market conditions dictate.
Interest Rate Risk Management
The Company enters into various interest rate contracts with the objective of lowering funding costs or altering interest rate exposures related to fixed and variable rate obligations. In these contracts, the Company agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount.
Foreign Currency Risk Management
The Companys global operations require active participation in foreign exchange markets. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts and options, and cross-currency swaps to hedge various currency exposures or create desired exposures. Exposures primarily relate to assets, liabilities and bonds denominated in foreign currencies, as well as economic exposure, which is derived from the risk that currency fluctuations could affect the dollar value of future cash flows related to operating activities. The primary business objective of the activity is to optimize the U.S. dollar value of the Companys assets, liabilities and future cash flows with respect to exchange rate fluctuations. Assets and liabilities denominated in the
 
78
 
same foreign currency are netted, and only the net exposure is hedged. At December 31, 2008, the Company had forward contracts, options and cross-currency swaps to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies. These contracts had various expiration dates, primarily in the first quarter of 2009.
Commodity Risk Management
The Company has exposure to the prices of commodities in its procurement of certain raw materials. The primary purpose of commodity hedging activities is to manage the price volatility associated with these forecasted inventory purchases. At December 31, 2008, the Company had futures contracts, options and swaps to buy, sell or exchange commodities. These agreements had various expiration dates primarily in 2009.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Cash Flow Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI); it is reclassified to Cost of sales in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects income. The unrealized amounts in AOCI fluctuate based on changes in the fair value of open contracts at the end of each reporting period. The Company anticipates volatility in AOCI and net income from its cash flow hedges. The amount of volatility varies with the level of derivative activities and market conditions during any period. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current period income.
 
The net loss from previously terminated interest rate cash flow hedges included in AOCI at December 31, 2008 was $9 million after tax ($16 million after tax at December 31, 2007). During 2008, 2007 and 2006, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to interest rate hedge ineffectiveness. Net losses related to cash flow hedge terminations recorded in Cost of sales or Interest expense and amortization of debt discount were $13 million in 2008 and 2007 and $11 million in 2006. The Company had no open interest rate cash flow hedges at December 31, 2008.
 
At December 31, 2008, the Company had open foreign currency forward contracts in a net gain position of $9 million (net loss position of $4 million at December 31, 2007) designated as cash flow hedges of underlying forecasted purchases of feedstocks. Current open contracts hedge forecasted transactions until September 2009. The effective portion of the mark-to-market effects of the foreign currency forward contracts is recorded in AOCI; it is reclassified to income in the same period or periods that the underlying feedstock purchase affects income. The net gain from the foreign currency hedges included in AOCI at December 31, 2008 was $15 million after tax (net loss of $4 million after tax at December 31, 2007). During 2008, 2007 and 2006, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to foreign currency hedge ineffectiveness. At December 31, 2008, the Company had open forward contracts with various expiration dates to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies with a U.S. dollar equivalent of $3,219 million.
 
Commodity swaps, futures and option contracts with maturities of not more than 36 months are utilized and designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted commodity purchases. Current open contracts hedge forecasted transactions until March 2010. The effective portion of the mark-to-market effect of the cash flow hedge instrument is recorded in AOCI; it is reclassified to income in the same period or periods that the underlying commodity purchase affects income. The net loss from commodity hedges included in AOCI at December 31, 2008 was $239 million after tax (net gain of $48 million after tax at December 31, 2007). During 2008, 2007 and 2006, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to commodity hedge ineffectiveness. At December 31, 2008, the Company had the following aggregate notionals of outstanding commodity forward contracts to hedge forecasted purchases:
Fair Value Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current period income and reflected as Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in the consolidated statements of income. The short-cut method under SFAS No. 133 is being used when the criteria are met. The Company had no open interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of underlying fixed rate debt obligations at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.
 
Net losses of $2 million related to fair value hedge terminations were recorded in interest expense in 2008; net gains were recorded of $10 million in 2007 and $16 million in 2006. Unamortized losses relating to terminated fair value hedges were $27 million at December 31, 2008 and $26 million at December 31, 2007.
 
79
 
 
Net Foreign Investment Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as net foreign investment hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is included in Cumulative Translation Adjustments in AOCI. The results of hedges of the Companys net investment in foreign operations included in Cumulative Translation Adjustments in AOCI was a net gain of $36 million after tax at December 31, 2008 (net loss of $100 million after tax at December 31, 2007). During 2008, 2007 and 2006 there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to hedge ineffectiveness. At December 31, 2008, the Company had no open forward contracts or outstanding options to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies. At December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding foreign-currency denominated debt designated as a hedge of net foreign investment of $1,267 million.
Other Derivative Instruments
The Company utilizes futures, options and swap instruments that are effective as economic hedges of commodity price exposures, but do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended and interpreted. At December 31, 2008, the Company had derivative assets of $19 million and derivative liabilities of $17 million related to these instruments, with the related mark-to-market effects included in Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2007, the Company had derivative assets of $3 million and derivative liabilities of $6 million related to these instruments. The Company had no outstanding commodity forward contracts at December 31, 2008.
 
The Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts, options, and cross-currency swaps that are not designated as hedging instruments primarily to manage foreign currency and interest rate exposure. The Company had derivative assets of $111 million and derivative liabilities of $160 million related to these instruments at December 31, 2008. The Company had open forward contracts with various expiration dates to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies with a U.S. dollar equivalent of $10,799 million at December 31, 2008.
 
The following table provides the fair value and balance sheet presentation of derivative instruments at December 31:
 
80
 
The net after-tax amounts to be reclassified from AOCI to income within the next 12 months are a $7 million loss for interest rate contracts, a $213 million loss for commodity contracts and a $15 million gain for foreign currency contracts.
 
81
 
NOTE I  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets:
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1 (measured using quoted prices in active markets), the total fair value is either the price of the most recent trade at the time of the market close or the official close price as defined by the exchange in which the asset is most actively traded on the last trading day of the period, multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs.
 
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 (measured using significant other observable inputs), the Level 1 process is utilized where available (primarily for some debt securities). For other Level 2 assets and liabilities, the fair value is based on the price a dealer would pay for the security or similar securities, adjusted for any terms specific to that asset or liability. Market inputs are obtained from well established and recognized vendors of market data and placed through tolerance/quality checks. For long-term debt as well as derivative assets and liabilities, the fair value is calculated using standard industry models used to calculate the fair value of the various financial instruments based on significant observable market inputs such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, swap rates, interest rates, and implied volatilities obtained from various market sources.
 
For all other assets and liabilities for which observable inputs are used, fair value is derived through the use of fair value models, such as a discounted cash flow model or other standard pricing models. See Note H for further information on the types of instruments used by the Company for risk management.
 
Assets and liabilities related to forward contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps, options and other conditional or exchange contracts executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement are netted. Per the guidance of FSP FIN No. 39-1, collateral accounts are netted with corresponding assets and liabilities. The balance of cash collateral posted by the Company was $64 million at December 31, 2008 ($6 million after netting against derivative liabilities included in the fair value table), and was classified as Accounts and notes receivable  Other in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
82
 
NOTE J  SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities
Accrued and other current liabilities were $2,625 million at December 31, 2008 and $2,512 million at December 31, 2007. Accrued payroll, which is a component of Accrued and other current liabilities, was $732 million at December 31, 2008 and $704 million at December 31, 2007. No other component of accrued liabilities was more than 5 percent of total current liabilities.
 
83
 
 
Sales of Accounts Receivable
Since 1997, the Company has routinely sold, without recourse, a participation in pools of qualifying trade accounts receivable. According to the agreements of the various programs, Dow maintains the servicing of these receivables. No servicing liability is recorded as the related costs are insignificant. As receivables in the pools are collected, new qualifying receivables are added. The maximum amount of receivables available for sale in the pools was $1,874 million in 2008, $2,324 million in 2007 and $1,658 million in 2006. The average monthly participation in the pools was $586 million in 2008, $271 million in 2007 and $135 million in 2006.
 
The net cash flow in any given period represents the discount on sales, which is recorded as interest expense. The average monthly discount was not material in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
 
84
 
NOTE K  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Litigation
Breast Implant Matters
On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), in which the Company is a 50 percent shareholder, voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve litigation related to Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products. On June 1, 2004, Dow Cornings Joint Plan of Reorganization (the Joint Plan) became effective and Dow Corning emerged from bankruptcy. The Joint Plan contains release and injunction provisions resolving all tort claims brought against various entities, including the Company, involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products.
 
To the extent not previously resolved in state court actions, cases involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products filed against the Company were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the District Court) for resolution in the context of the Joint Plan. On October 6, 2005, all such cases then pending in the District Court against the Company were dismissed. Should cases involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products be filed against the Company in the future, they will be accorded similar treatment. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that a resolution of all future cases will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
As part of the Joint Plan, Dow and Corning Incorporated have agreed to provide a credit facility to Dow Corning in an aggregate amount of $300 million. The Companys share of the credit facility is $150 million and is subject to the terms and conditions stated in the Joint Plan. At December 31, 2008, no draws had been taken against the credit facility.
DBCP Matters
Numerous lawsuits have been brought against the Company and other chemical companies, both inside and outside of the United States, alleging that the manufacture, distribution or use of pesticides containing dibromochloropropane (DBCP) has caused personal injury and property damage, including contamination of groundwater. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that the resolution of such lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Environmental Matters
Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. At December 31, 2008, the Company had accrued obligations of $312 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $22 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. Inherent uncertainties exist in these estimates primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies for handling site remediation and restoration. At December 31, 2007, the Company had accrued obligations of $322 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $28 million for the remediation of Superfund sites.
 
The following table summarizes the activity in the Companys accrued obligations for environmental matters for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $140 million in 2008, $92 million in 2007 and $125 million in 2006. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $193 million in 2008, $189 million in 2007 and $193 million in 2006.
 
85
 
 
Midland Site Environmental Matters
On June 12, 2003, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) issued a Hazardous Waste Operating License (the License) to the Companys Midland, Michigan manufacturing site (the Midland site), which included provisions requiring the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination in Midland area soils; Tittabawassee and Saginaw River sediment and floodplain soils; and Saginaw Bay. The License required the Company, by August 11, 2003, to propose a detailed Scope of Work for the off-site investigation for the City of Midland and the Tittabawassee River and floodplain for review and approval by the MDEQ. Revised Scopes of Work were approved by the MDEQ on October 18, 2005. The Company was required to submit a Scope of Work for the investigation of the Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay by August 11, 2007. The Company submitted the Scope of Work for the Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay on July 13, 2007. The Company received a Notice of Deficiency dated August 29, 2007, from the MDEQ with respect to the Scope of Work for the Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay. The Company submitted a revised Scope of Work for the Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay to the MDEQ on October 15, 2007. On February 1, 2008, the Company received an approval with modification for the Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay Scope of Work. The Company appealed the MDEQs approval with modification action in Midland Circuit Court on February 21, 2008 and then by filing a Contested Case Petition with the Michigan Office of Administrative Hearings and Rules on March 28, 2008. Following subsequent discussions between the Company and the MDEQ, a Remedial Investigation Work Plan along with a revised Scope of Work for the Saginaw River was submitted to the MDEQ on June 10, 2008. The Midland Circuit Court matter has been stayed by agreement of the parties.
 
Discussions between the Company and the MDEQ that occurred in 2004 and early 2005 regarding how to proceed with off-site corrective action under the License resulted in the execution of the Framework for an Agreement Between the State of Michigan and The Dow Chemical Company (the Framework) on January 20, 2005. The Framework committed the Company to propose a remedial investigation work plan by the end of 2005, conduct certain studies, and take certain immediate interim remedial actions in the City of Midland and along the Tittabawassee River.
Remedial Investigation Work Plans
The Company submitted Remedial Investigation Work Plans for the City of Midland and for the Tittabawassee River on December 29, 2005. By letters dated March 2, 2006 and April 13, 2006, the MDEQ provided two Notices of Deficiency (Notices) to the Company regarding the Remedial Investigation Work Plans. The Company responded, as required, to some of the items in the Notices on May 1, 2006, and as required responded to the balance of the items and submitted revised Remedial Investigation Work Plans on December 1, 2006. In response to subsequent discussions with the
MDEQ, the Company submitted further revised Remedial Investigation Work Plans on September 17, 2007, for the Tittabawassee River and on October 15, 2007, for the City of Midland. On June 10, 2008, the Company submitted revised Human Health Risk Assessment and Ecological Risk Assessment Work Plans for the Tittabawassee River in addition to a Work Plan for the collection of fish for analysis in support of the Human Health Risk Assessment Work Plan. Also on June 10, 2008, the Company submitted the Remedial Investigation Work Plan for the Saginaw River and the Saginaw Bay. The Company has not received comments on these plans.
Studies Conducted
On July 12, 2006, the MDEQ approved the sampling for the first six miles of the Tittabawassee River. On December 1, 2006, the MDEQ approved the Sampling and Analysis Plan in Support of Bioavailability Study for Midland (the Plan). The results of the Plan were provided to the MDEQ on March 22, 2007. On May 3, 2007, the MDEQ approved the GeoMorph Pilot Site Characterization Report for the first six miles and approved this approach for the balance of the Tittabawassee River with some qualifications. On July 12, 2007, the MDEQ approved, with qualifications, the sampling for the next 11 miles of the Tittabawassee River. On March 1, 2008 the Company submitted to the MDEQ the Tittabawassee River Site Characterization Report that incorporated the data obtained from the 2006 and 2007 field investigations. On June 30, 2008, the Company submitted the Lower Tittabawassee River Sampling and Analysis Plan to the MDEQ. The Sampling and Analysis Plan was approved by the MDEQ by letters dated July 10, 2008 and August 15, 2008. The sampling work has been completed and the results are due to be submitted in a report to MDEQ by June 1, 2009.
Interim Remedial Actions
The Company has been working with the MDEQ to implement Interim Response Activities and Pilot Corrective Action Plans in specific areas in and along the Tittabawassee River, where elevated levels of dioxins and furans were found during the investigation of the first six miles of the river. In September 2008, the Company and the MDEQ reached agreement to implement pilot projects to evaluate their applicability to future actions.
 
86
 
Removal Actions
On June 27, 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sent a letter to the Company demanding that the Company enter into consent orders under Section 106 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) for three areas identified during investigation of the first six miles of the Tittabawassee River as areas for interim remedial actions under MDEQ oversight. The EPA sought a commitment that the Company immediately engage in remedial actions to remove soils and sediments. Three removal orders were negotiated and were signed on July 12, 2007, and the soil and sediment removal work required by these orders has been completed. On November 15, 2007, the Company and the EPA entered into a CERCLA removal order requiring the Company to remove sediment in the Saginaw River where elevated concentrations were identified during investigative work conducted on the Saginaw River. The sediment removal work was completed in December 2007. On July 11, 2008, the Company and the EPA entered into a removal order under which the Company is required to remove soil, pave a road and driveways, and clean homes along a strip of land approximately 150 feet by 1,000 feet along the lower part of the Tittabawassee River. The work required under this removal order was completed in December 2008.
The Framework also contemplates that the Company, the State of Michigan and other federal and tribal governmental entities will negotiate the terms of an agreement or agreements to resolve potential governmental claims against the Company related to historical off-site contamination associated with the Midland site. The Company and the governmental parties began to meet in the fall of 2005 and entered into a Confidentiality Agreement in December 2005. The Company continues to conduct negotiations with the governmental parties under the Federal Alternative Dispute Resolution Act.
 
On September 12, 2007, the EPA issued a press release reporting that they were withdrawing from the alternative dispute resolution process. On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a Funding and Participation Agreement with the natural resource damage trustees that addressed the Companys payment of past costs incurred by the trustees, payment of the costs of a trustee coordinator and a process to review additional cooperative studies that the Company might agree to fund or conduct with the natural resource damage trustees.
 
On October 10, 2007, the EPA presented a Special Notice Letter to the Company offering to enter into negotiations for an administrative order on consent for the Company to conduct or fund a remedial investigation, a feasibility study, interim remedial actions and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, Saginaw River, and Saginaw Bay. The Company agreed to enter into negotiations and submitted its Good Faith Offer to the EPA on December 10, 2007. On January 4, 2008, the EPA terminated negotiations under the Special Notice Letter.
 
On March 18, 2008, the Company and the natural resource damage trustees entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to provide a mechanism for the Company to fund cooperative studies related to the assessment of natural resource damages. On April 7, 2008 the natural resource damage trustees released for public review and comment their Natural Resource Damage Assessment Plan for the Tittabawassee River System Assessment Area.
 
On October 31, 2008, the EPA informed the Company that the Company would receive a Special Notice Letter (Letter) on or about December 15, 2008 offering to enter into negotiations for an administrative order on consent for the Company to conduct or fund a remedial investigation, a feasibility study and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay. On November 18, 2008, the Company entered into a Confidentiality Agreement with EPA and the MDEQ regarding the Letter negotiations. On December 15, 2008, the Company received the Letter from the EPA, proposing that the Company enter into negotiations on an administrative order on consent to perform a remedial investigation, a feasibility study, an engineering evaluation, a cost analysis and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, Saginaw River and Saginaw Bay. The December 15, 2008 Letter also included a demand for $1.8 million for the EPAs response costs through October 31, 2008. On December 22, 2008, the Company indicated it was willing to enter into negotiations, which have since commenced.
 
At the end of 2008, the Company had an accrual for off-site corrective action of $8 million (included in the total accrued obligation of $312 million at December 31, 2008) based on the range of activities that the Company proposed and discussed implementing with the MDEQ and which is set forth in the Framework. At December 31, 2007, the accrual for off-site corrective action was $5 million (included in the total accrued obligation of $322 million at December 31, 2007).
Environmental Matters Summary
It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
 
87
 
 
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbides premises, and Union Carbides responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem). In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbides products.
 
Influenced by the bankruptcy filings of numerous defendants in asbestos-related litigation and the prospects of various forms of state and national legislative reform, the rate at which plaintiffs filed asbestos-related suits against various companies, including Union Carbide and Amchem, increased in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003. Since then, the rate of filing has significantly abated. Union Carbide expects more asbestos-related suits to be filed against Union Carbide and Amchem in the future, and will aggressively defend or reasonably resolve, as appropriate, both pending and future claims.
 
Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
 
In November 2006, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2006 and concluded that the experience from 2004 through 2006 was sufficient for the purpose of forecasting future filings and values of asbestos claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem, and could be used in place of previous assumptions to update its January 2005 study. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2006, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2021 was estimated to be between approximately $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. As in its January 2003 and January 2005 studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2006 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
Based on ARPCs December 2006 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2006 which covered the 15-year period ending in 2021, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $177 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income for 2006.
 
In November 2007, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides 2007 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2006 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2007. In December 2007, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, Union Carbide determined that no change to the accrual was required. At December 31, 2007, Union Carbides asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $1.1 billion.
 
In November 2008, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2006 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2008. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2008, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2023 was estimated to be between $952 million and $1.2 billion. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2008 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
 
In December 2008, based on ARPCs December 2008 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $952 million, which covered the 15-year period ending 2023, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $54 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credit in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2008, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $934 million.
 
88
 
At December 31, 2008, approximately 21 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 79 percent related to future claims. At December 31, 2007, approximately 31 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 69 percent related to future claims.
 
At December 31, 2002, Union Carbide increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion, substantially exhausting its asbestos product liability coverage. The insurance receivable related to the asbestos liability was determined by Union Carbide after a thorough review of applicable insurance policies and the 1985 Wellington Agreement, to which Union Carbide and many of its liability insurers are signatory parties, as well as other insurance settlements, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, and taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers. The Wellington Agreement and other agreements with insurers are designed to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of Union Carbides insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise.
 
In September 2003, Union Carbide filed a comprehensive insurance coverage case, now proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, seeking to confirm its rights to insurance for various asbestos claims and to facilitate an orderly and timely collection of insurance proceeds. This lawsuit was filed against insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place with Union Carbide regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage, in order to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of such insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. Although the lawsuit is continuing, through the end of 2008, Union Carbide had reached settlements with several of the carriers involved in this litigation.
 
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $403 million at December 31, 2008 and $467 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage.
 
In addition to the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability, Union Carbide had receivables for defense and resolution costs submitted to insurance carriers for reimbursement as follows:
Union Carbide expenses defense costs as incurred. The pretax impact for defense and resolution costs, net of insurance, was $53 million in 2008, $84 million in 2007 and $45 million in 2006, and was reflected in Cost of sales.
 
After a review of its insurance policies, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, after taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers; existing insurance settlements; and the advice of outside counsel with respect to the applicable insurance coverage law relating to the terms and conditions of its insurance policies, Union Carbide continues to believe that its recorded receivable for insurance recoveries from all insurance carriers is probable of collection.
 
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable described above were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
 
Because of the uncertainties described above, Union Carbides management cannot estimate the full range of the cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims facing Union Carbide and Amchem. Union Carbides management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of Union Carbides asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on Union Carbides results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of Union Carbide.
 
It is the opinion of Dows management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company.
 
89
 
 
Synthetic Rubber Industry Matters
In 2003, the U.S., Canadian and European competition authorities initiated separate investigations into alleged anticompetitive behavior by certain participants in the synthetic rubber industry. Certain subsidiaries of the Company (but as to the investigation in Europe only) have responded to requests for documents and are otherwise cooperating in the investigations.
 
On June 10, 2005, the Company received a Statement of Objections from the European Commission (the EC) stating that it believed that the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company (the Dow Entities), together with other participants in the synthetic rubber industry, engaged in conduct in violation of European competition laws with respect to the butadiene rubber and emulsion styrene butadiene rubber businesses. In connection therewith, on November 29, 2006, the EC issued its decision alleging infringement of Article 81 of the Treaty of Rome and imposed a fine of Euro 64.575 million (approximately $85 million) on the Dow Entities. Several other companies were also named and fined. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recognized a loss contingency of $85 million related to the fine. The Company has appealed the ECs decision. Subsequent to the imposition of the fine, the Company and/or certain subsidiaries of the Company became named parties in various related U.S., United Kingdom and Italian civil actions.
 
Additionally, on March 10, 2007, the Company received a Statement of Objections from the EC stating that it believed that DuPont Dow Elastomers L.L.C. (DDE), a former 50:50 joint venture with E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), together with other participants in the synthetic rubber industry, engaged in conduct in violation of European competition laws with respect to the polychloroprene business. This Statement of Objections specifically names the Company, in its capacity as a former joint venture owner of DDE. On December 5, 2007, the EC announced its decision to impose a fine on the Company, among others, in the amount of Euro 48.675 million (approximately $70 million). The Company previously transferred its joint venture ownership interest in DDE to DuPont in 2005, and DDE then changed its name to DuPont Performance Elastomers L.L.C. (DPE). In February 2008, DuPont, DPE and the Company each filed an appeal of the December 5, 2007 decision of the EC. Based on the Companys allocation agreement with DuPont, the Companys share of this fine, regardless of the outcome of the appeals, will not have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Other Litigation Matters
In addition to breast implant, DBCP, environmental and synthetic rubber industry matters, the Company is party to a number of other claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions. Certain of these actions purport to be class actions and seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are being contested. Dow has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers at various times. These policies provide coverage that will be utilized to minimize the impact, if any, of the contingencies described above.
Summary
Except for the possible effect of Union Carbides asbestos-related liability described above and matters involving Rohm and Haas Company (see Note U), it is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Purchase Commitments
The Company has numerous agreements for the purchase of ethylene-related products globally. The purchase prices are determined primarily on a cost-plus basis. Total purchases under these agreements were $1,502 million in 2008, $1,624 million in 2007 and $1,356 million in 2006. The Companys take-or-pay commitments associated with these agreements at December 31, 2008 are included in the table below.
 
The Company also has various commitments for take-or-pay and throughput agreements. Such commitments are at prices not in excess of current market prices. The terms of all but two of these agreements extend from one to 25 years. One agreement has terms extending to 36 years and another has terms extending to 80 years. The determinable future commitments for these agreements are included for 10 years in the following table which presents the fixed and determinable portion of obligations under the Companys purchase commitments at December 31, 2008:
 
90
 
In addition to the take-or-pay obligations at December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding commitments which ranged from one to nine years for steam, electrical power, materials, property and other items used in the normal course of business of approximately $327 million. Such commitments were at prices not in excess of current market prices.
Guarantees
The Company provides a variety of guarantees, as described more fully in the following sections.
Guarantees
Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others (via delivery of cash or other assets) if specified triggering events occur. With guarantees, such as commercial or financial contracts, non-performance by the guaranteed party triggers the obligation of the Company to make payments to the beneficiary of the guarantee. The majority of the Companys guarantees relates to debt of nonconsolidated affiliates, which have expiration dates ranging from less than one year to seven years, and trade financing transactions in Latin America and Asia Pacific, which typically expire within one year of their inception. The current expectation of future payment or performance related to the non-performance of others is considered unlikely.
Residual Value Guarantees
The Company provides guarantees related to leased assets specifying the residual value that will be available to the lessor at lease termination through sale of the assets to the lessee or third parties.
The following tables provide a summary of the final expiration, maximum future payments and recorded liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for each type of guarantee:
Asset Retirement Obligations
Dow has 150 manufacturing sites in 35 countries. Most of these sites contain numerous individual manufacturing operations, particularly at the Companys larger sites. Asset retirement obligations are recorded as incurred and reasonably estimable, including obligations for which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the Company. Retirement of assets may involve such efforts as remediation and treatment of asbestos, contractually required demolition, and other related activities, depending on the nature and location of the assets, and are typically realized only upon demolition of those facilities. In identifying asset retirement obligations, the Company considers identification of legally enforceable obligations, changes in existing law, estimates of potential settlement dates and
 
91
 
 
the calculation of an appropriate discount rate to be used in calculating the fair value of the obligations. Dow has a well-established global process to identify, approve and track the demolition of retired or to-be-retired facilities; no assets are retired from service until this process has been followed. Dow typically forecasts demolition projects based on the usefulness of the assets; environmental, health and safety concerns; and other similar considerations. Under this process, as demolition projects are identified and approved, reasonable estimates may then be determined for the time frames during which any related asset retirement obligations are expected to be settled. For those assets where a range of potential settlement dates may be reasonably estimated, obligations are recorded. Dow routinely reviews all changes to items under consideration for demolition to determine if an adjustment to the value of the asset retirement obligation is required.
 
The Company has recognized asset retirement obligations for the following activities: demolition and remediation activities at manufacturing sites in the United States, Canada and Europe; capping activities at landfill sites in the United States, Canada, Italy and Brazil; and asbestos encapsulation as a result of planned demolition and remediation activities at manufacturing and administrative sites in the United States, Canada and Europe.
 
In 2008, the Company recognized asset retirement obligations of $4 million related to the 2008 restructuring plan (see Note B).
 
The following table shows changes in the aggregate carrying amount of the Companys asset retirement obligations:
In accordance with FIN No. 47, the Company has recognized conditional asset retirement obligations related to asbestos encapsulation as a result of planned demolition and remediation activities at manufacturing and administrative sites in the United States, Canada and Europe. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate carrying amount of conditional asset retirement obligations recognized by the Company was $41 million ($45 million at December 31, 2007).
 
The discount rate used to calculate the Companys asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2008 was 7.13 percent (5.08 percent at December 31, 2007). These obligations are included in the consolidated balance sheets as Other noncurrent obligations.
 
The Company has not recognized conditional asset retirement obligations for which a fair value cannot be reasonably estimated in its consolidated financial statements. Assets that have not been submitted/reviewed for potential demolition activities are considered to have continued usefulness and are generally still operating normally. Therefore, without a plan to demolish the assets or the expectation of a plan, such as shortening the useful life of assets for depreciation purposes under the requirements of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, Dow is unable to reasonably forecast a time frame to use for present value calculations. As such, Dow has not recognized obligations for individual plants/buildings at its 150 manufacturing sites where estimates of potential settlement dates cannot be reasonably made. In addition, the Company has not recognized conditional asset retirement obligations for the capping of its approximately 45 underground storage wells at Dow-owned sites when there are no plans or expectations of plans to exit the sites. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that such conditional asset retirement obligations, when estimable, will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements based on current costs.
NOTE L  NOTES PAYABLE, LONG-TERM DEBT AND AVAILABLE CREDIT FACILITIES
 
92
 
At December 31, 2008, the Company had an unused and committed $3 billion 5-year revolving credit facility with various U.S. and foreign banks, with a maturity date of April 2011, in support of its commercial paper borrowings and working capital requirements.
 
The Companys outstanding public debt of $9.5 billion has been issued under indentures which contain, among other provisions, covenants with which the Company must comply while the underlying notes are outstanding. Such covenants include obligations to not allow liens on principal U.S. manufacturing facilities, enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to principal U.S. manufacturing facilities, or merge or consolidate with any other corporation or sell or convey all or substantially all of the Companys assets. Failure of the Company to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable indenture which would allow the note holders to accelerate the due date of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the subject notes.
 
The Companys primary credit agreements contain covenant and default provisions in addition to the covenants set forth above with respect to the Companys public debt. Significant other covenants and defaults include:
 
 
93
 
 
Failure of the Company to comply with any of the covenants or default provisions could result in a default under the applicable credit agreement which would allow the lenders to not fund future loan requests and to accelerate the due date of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on any outstanding loans.
 
At December 31, 2008, management believes the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants and default provisions referred to above.
NOTE M  PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
Pension Plans
The Company has defined benefit pension plans that cover employees in the United States and a number of other countries. The U.S. qualified plan covering the parent company is the largest plan. Benefits are based on length of service and the employees three highest consecutive years of compensation. Employees hired after January 1, 2008 earn benefits that are based on a set percentage of annual pay, plus interest.
 
The Companys funding policy is to contribute to those plans when pension laws and/or economics either require or encourage funding. In 2008, Dow contributed $185 million to its pension plans, including contributions to fund benefit payments for its non-qualified supplemental plans. Dow expects to contribute $376 million to its pension plans in 2009.
 
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine pension plan obligations and net periodic benefit costs for the plans are provided in the two tables below:
The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the Board of Directors and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Companys historical experience with the pension fund asset performance is also considered. The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. qualified plans are based on the yield on high-quality fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows of Dows major U.S. plans are matched against the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve (Above Median) to arrive at a single discount rate by plan.
 
The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all defined benefit pension plans was $14.9 billion at December 31, 2008 and $14.7 billion at December 31, 2007.
 
94
 
In addition to the U.S. qualified plan, U.S. employees are eligible to participate in defined contribution plans (Employee Savings Plans) by contributing a portion of their compensation, which is partially matched by the Company. Defined contribution plans also cover employees in some subsidiaries in other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Expense recognized for all defined contribution plans was $49 million in 2008, $125 million in 2007 and $84 million in 2006.
Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retired employees. The Companys plans outside of the United States are not significant; therefore, this discussion relates to the U.S. plans only. The plans provide health care benefits, including hospital, physicians services, drug and major medical expense coverage, and life insurance benefits. For employees hired before January 1, 1993, the plans provide benefits supplemental to Medicare when retirees are eligible for these benefits. The Company and the retiree share the cost of these benefits, with the Company portion increasing as the retiree has increased years of credited service, although there is a cap on the Company portion. The Company has the ability to change these benefits at any time. Employees hired after January 1, 2008 are not covered under the plans.
 
The Company funds most of the cost of these health care and life insurance benefits as incurred. In 2008, Dow did not make any contributions to its other postretirement benefit plan trusts. Likewise, Dow does not expect to contribute assets to its other postretirement benefits plan trusts in 2009.
 
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine other postretirement benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs for the U.S. plans are provided below:
Increasing the assumed medical cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2008 by $15 million and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year by $1 million. Decreasing the assumed medical cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would decrease the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2008 by $15 million and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year by $1 million.
Impact of Remeasurements
An expense remeasurement of the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans was completed in the third quarter of 2006, due to curtailments as defined in SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits, related to workforce reductions (see Note B), resulting in a $3 million increase in net periodic pension cost for 2006.
 
95
 
 
 
 
96
 
In 2009, an estimated net loss of $97 million and prior service cost of $30 million for the defined benefit pension plans will be amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost. In 2009, an estimated net gain of $1 million and a prior service credit of $4 million for other postretirement benefit plans will be amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost.
  
 
The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for all of its plans.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The estimated future benefit payments, reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are presented in the following table:
Plan Assets
Plan assets consist mainly of equity and fixed income securities of U.S. and foreign issuers, and may include alternative investments such as real estate, private equity and other absolute return strategies. At December 31, 2008, plan assets totaled $11.6 billion and included Company common stock with a value of $7 million (less than 1 percent of total plan assets). At December 31, 2007, plan assets totaled $16.1 billion and included Company common stock with a value of $16 million (less than 1 percent of total plan assets).
Investment Strategy and Risk Management for Plan Assets
The Companys investment strategy for the plan assets is to manage the assets in order to pay retirement benefits to plan participants while minimizing cash contributions from the Company over the life of the plans. This is accomplished by diversifying investments in various asset classes and earning an acceptable long-term rate of return consistent with an acceptable degree of risk, while considering the liquidity needs of the plans.
 
97
 
 
The plans are permitted to use derivative instruments for investment purposes, as well as for hedging the underlying asset and liability exposure and rebalancing the asset allocation. The plans use value at risk, stress testing, scenario analysis, and Monte Carlo simulation to monitor and manage risk in the portfolios.
Leased Property
The Company routinely leases premises for use as sales and administrative offices, warehouses and tanks for product storage, motor vehicles, railcars, computers, office machines, and equipment under operating leases. In addition, the Company leases a gas turbine and aircraft in the United States, and ethylene plants in Canada and The Netherlands. At the termination of the leases, the Company has the option to purchase these plants and certain other leased equipment and buildings based on a fair market value determination.
 
Rental expenses under operating leases, net of sublease rental income, were $439 million in 2008, $445 million in 2007 and $441 million in 2006. Future minimum rental payments under operating leases with remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:
Variable Interest Entities
The Company leases an ethylene facility in The Netherlands from an owner trust that is a variable interest entity (VIE). Dow is not the primary beneficiary of the owner trust and is, therefore, not required to consolidate the owner trust. Based on a valuation completed in mid-2003 when Dow entered into the lease, the facility was valued at $394 million. Upon expiration of the lease, which matures in 2014, Dow may purchase the facility for an amount based upon a fair market value determination. At December 31, 2008, Dow had provided to the owner trust a residual value guarantee of $363 million, which represents Dows maximum exposure to loss under the lease. Given the productive nature of the facility, it is probable that the facility will have continuing value to Dow or the owner trust in excess of the residual value guarantee.
 
In September 2001, Hobbes Capital S.A. (Hobbes), a former consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued $500 million of preferred securities in the form of equity certificates. The certificates provided a floating rate of return (which may be reinvested) based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Under FIN No. 46R, Hobbes was a VIE and the Company was the primary beneficiary. During the third quarter of 2008, the other partner of Hobbes redeemed its $674 million ownership in Hobbes. Prior to redemption, the equity certificates were classified as Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries and the reinvested preferred returns were included in Noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets. The preferred return was included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
 
98
 
NOTE O  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company grants stock-based compensation to employees and non-employee directors in the form of the Employees Stock Purchase Plan and stock option plans, which include deferred and restricted stock. Information regarding these plans is provided below.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which replaced SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, and superseded Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. This statement, which requires that the cost of all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements, established fair value as the measurement objective and required entities to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions. As issued, the statement applied to all awards granted, modified, repurchased or cancelled after July 1, 2005, and unvested portions of previously issued and outstanding awards. On April 14, 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced the adoption of a new rule that amended the compliance date for SFAS No. 123R, allowing companies to implement the statement at the beginning of their next fiscal year that began after June 15, 2005, which was January 1, 2006 for the Company. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company began expensing stock-based compensation newly issued in 2006 to employees in accordance with the fair-value-based measurement method of accounting set forth in SFAS No. 123R, using the modified prospective method.
 
The Company grants stock-based compensation awards which vest over a specified period or upon employees meeting certain performance and retirement eligibility criteria. The Company has historically amortized these awards over the specified vesting period and recognized any unrecognized compensation cost at the date of retirement (the nominal vesting period approach). The Company will continue applying the nominal vesting period approach to the portion of outstanding awards that were unvested at December 31, 2005, until the awards are fully vested. SFAS No. 123R specifies that an award is vested when the employees right to the award is no longer contingent upon providing additional service (the non-substantive vesting period approach). The Company began applying this approach to all stock-based compensation awarded after December 31, 2005. The fair value of equity instruments issued to employees is measured on the date of grant and is recognized over the vesting period or from the grant date to the date on which retirement eligibility provisions have been met and additional service is no longer required.
 
The Company uses a lattice-based option valuation model to estimate the fair value of stock options and a Black-Scholes option valuation model for subscriptions to purchase shares under the Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The weighted-average assumptions used to calculate total stock-based compensation are included in the following table:
The dividend yield assumption for all years was based on the Companys current declared dividend as a percentage of the stock price on the grant date. The expected volatility assumption for all years was based on an equal weighting of the historical daily volatility and current implied volatility from exchange-traded options for the contractual term of the options. The risk-free interest rate for all years was based on the weighted-average of U.S. Treasury strip rates over the contractual term of the options.  Based on an analysis of historical exercise patterns, exercise rates were developed that resulted in an average life of 6 years for all years.
EMPLOYEES STOCK PURCHASE PLANS
On February 13, 2003, the Board of Directors authorized a 10-year ESPP, which was approved by stockholders at the Companys annual meeting on May 8, 2003. Under the 2008 annual offering, most employees were eligible to purchase shares of common stock of the Company valued at up to 10 percent of their annual base earnings. The value is determined using the plan price multiplied by the number of shares subscribed to by the employee. The plan price of the stock is set each year at no less than 85 percent of market price. Approximately 51 percent of the eligible employees enrolled in the annual plan for 2008; approximately 59 percent of the eligible employees enrolled in 2007; and approximately 52 percent enrolled in 2006.
 
99
 
 
STOCK OPTION PLANS
Under the 1988 Award and Option Plan (the 1988 Plan), a plan approved by stockholders, the Company may grant options or shares of common stock to its employees subject to certain annual and individual limits. The terms of the grants are fixed at the grant date. At December 31, 2008, there were 30,609,222 shares available for grant under this plan.
 
No additional grants will be made under the 1994 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, which previously allowed the Company to grant up to 300,000 options to non-employee directors. At December 31, 2008, there were 56,250 options outstanding under this plan.
 
No additional grants will be made under the 1998 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, which previously allowed the Company to grant up to 600,000 options to non-employee directors. At December 31, 2008, there were 135,700 options outstanding under this plan.
 
The exercise price of each stock option equals the market price of the Companys stock on the date of grant. Options vest from one to three years, and have a maximum term of 10 years.
 
The following table provides stock option activity for 2008:
 
100
 
Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards was $36 million at December 31, 2008 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.83 years.
Deferred and Restricted Stock
Under the 1988 Plan, the Company grants deferred stock to certain employees. The grants vest after a designated period of time, generally two to five years.
Total unrecognized compensation cost related to deferred stock awards was $86 million at December 31, 2008 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.09 years. At December 31, 2008, approximately 252,000 deferred shares with a grant date weighted-average fair value per share of $42.80 had previously vested, but were not issued. These shares are scheduled to be issued to employees within one to four years or upon retirement.
 
Also under the 1988 Plan, the Company has granted performance deferred stock awards that vest when the Company attains specified performance targets over a predetermined period, generally two to five years. Compensation expense related to performance deferred stock awards is recognized over the lesser of the service or performance period. The following table shows the performance deferred stock awards granted:
 
101
 
 
The following table shows changes in nonvested performance deferred stock:
During the second quarter of 2008, the Company settled 0.9 million shares of performance deferred stock for $35 million in cash. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to performance deferred stock awards was $10 million at December 31, 2008 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.68 years. At December 31, 2008, approximately 0.1 million performance deferred shares with a grant date weighted-average fair value of $35.39 per share were vested, but not issued. These shares are scheduled to be issued in April 2009.
 
In addition, the Company is authorized to grant up to 300,000 deferred shares of common stock to executive officers of the Company under the 1994 Executive Performance Plan.
 
Under the 2003 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, a plan approved by stockholders, the Company may grant up to 1.5 million shares (including options, restricted stock and deferred stock) to non-employee directors over the 10-year duration of the program, subject to an annual aggregate award limit of 25,000 shares for each individual director. In 2008, 28,200 shares of restricted stock with a weighted-average fair value of $37.71 per share were issued under this plan. The restricted stock issued under this plan cannot be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise transferred by the non-employee director, until the director is no longer a member of the Board.
NOTE P  LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
In early 1998, a subsidiary of the Company purchased the 20 percent limited partner interests of outside investors in a consolidated subsidiary, Chemtech Royalty Associates L.P., for a fair value of $210 million in accordance with wind-up provisions in the partnership agreement. The limited partnership was renamed Chemtech II L.P. (Chemtech II). In June 1998, the Company contributed assets with an aggregate fair value of $783 million (through a wholly owned subsidiary) to Chemtech II and an outside investor acquired a limited partner interest in Chemtech II totaling 20 percent in exchange for $200 million. In September 2000, the Company contributed additional assets with an aggregate fair value of $18 million (through a wholly owned subsidiary) to Chemtech II. During the second quarter of 2008, the minority outside investor presented the Company with a liquidation notice, resulting in Dows election to purchase the outside investors share in the partnership for $200 million. The transaction was completed in the second quarter of 2008.
 
Prior to the sale of its interest, the outside investor in Chemtech II received a cumulative annual priority return on its investment and participated in residual earnings. For financial reporting purposes, the assets (other than intercompany loans, which were eliminated), liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the partnership and subsidiaries were included in the Companys consolidated financial statements, and the outside investors limited partner interest was included in Noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
102
 
NOTE Q  PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES
The following transactions were entered into for the purpose of providing diversified sources of funds to the Company.
 
In July 1999, Tornado Finance V.O.F., a consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued $500 million of preferred securities in the form of preferred partnership units. The units provide a distribution of 7.965 percent, may be redeemed in 2009 or thereafter, and may be called at any time by the subsidiary. The preferred partnership units are classified as Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries in the consolidated balance sheets. The distributions are included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
 
In September 2001, Hobbes Capital S.A. (Hobbes), a former consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued $500 million of preferred securities in the form of equity certificates. The certificates provided a floating rate of return (which may be reinvested) based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). During the third quarter of 2008, the other partner of Hobbes redeemed its $674 million ownership in Hobbes. The minority ownership was redeemed in a non-cash transaction in exchange for a three-year note payable with a floating rate based on LIBOR. Prior to redemption, the equity certificates of $500 million were classified as Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries and the reinvested preferred returns were included in Noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets. The preferred return was included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
NOTE R  STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY
There are no significant restrictions limiting the Companys ability to pay dividends.
 
Undistributed earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates included in retained earnings were $2,089 million at December 31, 2008 and $1,962 million at December 31, 2007.
 
On July 14, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 25 million shares of Dow common stock over the period ending on December 31, 2007 (the 2005 Program). Prior to that authorization (and since August 3, 1999 when the Board of Directors terminated its 1997 authorization which allowed the Company to repurchase shares of Dow common stock), the only shares purchased by the Company were those shares received from employees and non-employee directors to pay taxes owed to the Company as a result of the exercise of stock options or the delivery of deferred stock (see Note O for information regarding the Companys stock option plans). In 2005 and 2006, the Company purchased a total of 18,798,407 shares of the Companys common stock under the 2005 program. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company purchased 6,201,593 shares of the Companys common stock under the 2005 Program, bringing the program to a close.
 
On October 26, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved a share buy-back program, authorizing up to $2 billion to be spent on the repurchase of the Companys common stock (the 2006 Program). Purchases under the 2006 Program began in March 2007, following the completion of the 2005 Program. In 2007, the Company purchased 26,225,207 shares of the Companys common stock under the 2006 Program. In 2008, the Company purchased 21,867,831 shares under the 2006 Program, bringing the total number of shares purchased under this program to 48,093,038 and bringing the program to a close.
 
The total number of treasury shares purchased by the Company, including shares received from employees and non-employee directors to pay taxes owed to the Company as a result of the exercise of stock options or the delivery of deferred stock, was 23,039,786 in 2008; 33,275,995 in 2007 and 18,694,453 in 2006.
 
The Company issues shares for options exercised as well as for the release of deferred and restricted stock out of treasury stock. The Company does not plan to repurchase shares for this activity in 2009.
 
The number of treasury shares issued to employees under the Companys option and purchase programs was 7.0 million in 2008, 15.6 million in 2007 and 9.6 million in 2006.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The Company has the Dow Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the ESOP), which is an integral part of The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan. A significant majority of full-time employees in the United States are eligible to participate in the ESOP through the allocation of shares of the Companys common stock.
 
At December 31, 2008, 9 million common shares held by the ESOP were outstanding, all of which have been allocated to participants accounts. Shares held by the ESOP are treated as outstanding shares in the determination of basic and diluted earnings per share.
 
103
 
NOTE S  INCOME TAXES
Operating loss carryforwards amounted to $4,087 million at December 31, 2008 and $5,439 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, $216 million of the operating loss carryforwards were subject to expiration in 2009 through 2013. The remaining operating loss carryforwards expire in years beyond 2013 or have an indefinite carryforward period. Tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2008 amounted to $680 million ($681 million at December 31, 2007), net of FIN No. 48 positions, of which $2 million is subject to expiration in 2009 through 2013. The remaining tax credit carryforwards expire in years beyond 2013.
 
Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related companies that are deemed to be permanently invested amounted to $8,043 million at December 31, 2008, $7,752 million at December 31, 2007 and $5,951 million at December 31, 2006. It is not practicable to calculate the unrecognized deferred tax liability on those earnings.
 
The Company had valuation allowances, which were primarily related to the realization of recorded tax benefits on tax loss carryforwards from operations in the United States, Brazil, Asia Pacific and Switzerland, of $487 million at December 31, 2008 and $323 million at December 31, 2007.
 
The tax rate for 2008 was negatively impacted by increased foreign taxes, declining financial results in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States and goodwill impairment losses that are not deductible for tax purposes (see Note G). Additionally, during 2008, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that certain tax loss carryforwards in the United States and Asia Pacific would not be utilized due to deteriorating market conditions for the Companys products in these areas, which resulted in increases in valuation allowances of $48 million in the United States and $24 million in Asia Pacific. These events resulted in an effective tax rate for 2008 that was higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The Companys reported effective tax rate for 2008 was 51.0 percent.
 
The tax rate for 2007 was negatively impacted by a change in German tax law that was enacted in August and included a reduction in the German income tax rate, which was effective January 1, 2008. As a result of the change, the Company adjusted the value of its net deferred tax assets in Germany (using the lower tax rate) and recorded a charge of $362 million against the Provision for income taxes in the third quarter of 2007. Additionally, during 2007, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that certain tax loss carryforwards in the United States and Brazil would be utilized due to positive financial performance, adherence to fiscal discipline and improved forecasted earnings, which resulted in net reversals of valuation allowances of $71 million related to the United States and $45 million related to Brazil. In addition, the Company changed the legal ownership structure of its investment in EQUATE, resulting in a favorable impact to the Provision for income taxes of $113 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. These events, combined with enacted changes in the tax rates in Canada and Italy, strong financial results in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States and improved earnings from a number of the Companys joint ventures, partially offset by the impact of FIN No. 48, resulted in an effective tax rate for 2007 that was lower than the U.S. statutory rate. The Companys reported effective tax rate for 2007 was 29.3 percent.
 
During 2006, the Company developed tax planning strategies in Brazil and determined that it was more likely than not that tax loss carryforwards would be utilized, resulting in a reversal of valuation allowances of $63 million. This impact, combined with strong financial results in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States, enacted reductions in the tax rates in Canada and The Netherlands, and improved earnings from a number of the Companys joint ventures, resulted in an effective tax rate for 2006 that was lower than the U.S. statutory rate. The Companys reported effective tax rate for 2006 was 23.1 percent.
 
104
 
Uncertain Tax Positions
On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48. The cumulative effect of adoption was a $290 million reduction of retained earnings. At December 31, 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $736 million ($892 million at December 31, 2007), of which $690 million would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized ($864 million at December 31, 2007).
 
Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions are recognized as components of the Provision for income taxes, and totaled $3 million in 2008 and $29 million in 2007. The Companys accrual for interest and penalties was $124 million at December 31, 2008 and $152 million at December 31, 2007.
 
105
 
 
The Company is currently under examination in a number of tax jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that these examinations may be resolved within twelve months. As a result, it is reasonably possible that the total gross unrecognized tax benefits of the Company will be reduced by approximately $250 million ($285 million at December 31, 2007). The amount of settlement remains uncertain and it is reasonably possible that before settlement, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease by approximately $20 million. The impact on the Companys results of operations is expected to be immaterial.
 
Tax years that remain subject to examination for the Companys major tax jurisdictions are shown below:
The reserve for non-income tax contingencies related to issues in the United States and foreign locations was $163 million at December 31, 2008 and $226 million at December 31, 2007. This is managements best estimate of the potential liability for non-income tax contingencies. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law, both legislated and concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those accrued will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
NOTE T  OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
Dow is a diversified, worldwide manufacturer and supplier of approximately 3,300 products. The Companys products are used primarily as raw materials in the manufacture of customer products and services. The Company serves the following industries: appliance; automotive; agricultural; building and construction; chemical processing; electronics; furniture; housewares; oil and gas; packaging; paints, coatings and adhesives; personal care; pharmaceutical; processed foods; pulp and paper; textile and carpet; utilities; and water treatment.
 
Dow conducts its worldwide operations through global businesses, which are aggregated into reportable operating segments based on the nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment. On April 1, 2009, the Company acquired Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas). As a result of changes in the Companys organization resulting from the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, the Company changed its reportable segments in the second quarter of 2009. The Companys new reportable operating segments are Electronic and
 
106
 
 
Specialty Materials, Coatings and Infrastructure, Health and Agricultural Sciences, Performance Systems, Performance Products, Basic Plastics, Basic Chemicals, and Hydrocarbons and Energy. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the reportable segments and the Companys totals. It also represents the operating segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments, research and other expenses related to new business development activities, and other corporate items not allocated to the reportable operating segments. In addition, the Company changed its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes from EBIT to EBITDA (which Dow defines as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization). EBITDA by operating segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses, except depreciation and amortization; items that principally apply to the Company as a whole are assigned to Corporate. See table toward the end of this Note for depreciation and amortization by segment as well as a reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes. The new reportable segments and the new measure of profit/loss for segment reporting are reflected below.
 
The Corporate Profile included below describes the operating segments, how they are aggregated, and the types of products and services from which their revenues are derived.
Corporate Profile
Dow is a diversified chemical company that combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to constantly improve what is essential to human progress. The Company delivers a broad range of products and services to customers in approximately 160 countries, connecting chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help provide everything from fresh water, food and pharmaceuticals to paints, packaging and personal care products. In 2008, Dow had annual sales of $57.4 billion and employed approximately 46,000 people worldwide. The Company has 150 manufacturing sites in 35 countries and produces approximately 3,300 products. The financial information included herein reflects the retrospective revision of reportable segments for the Companys historical financial information only. The following descriptions of the Companys operating segments however include a representative listing of products for each business including the products acquired from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009.
ELECTRONIC AND SPECIALTY MATERIALS
chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) pads and slurries  chemical processing and intermediates  electronic displays  food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients  printed circuit board materials  semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing  water purification
Applications:
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization (CMP); materials used in the production of electronic displays; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications.
Electronic Materials
 
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals, food, home and personal care, water and energy production, and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for sufficient and clean water, air and energy, material preservation and improved healthcare, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. The businesses global footprint and geographic reach provide multiple opportunities for value growth. Specialty Materials consists of five global businesses: Dow Water and Process Solutions, Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Materials.
Specialty Materials
 
 
107
 
 
CYCLOTENE advanced electronics resins; DOW electrodeionization; DOW latex powders; DOW ultrafiltration; DOWEX ion exchange resins; DOWICIDE antimicrobial bactericides and fungicides; DURAPLUS floor care polymers; ECOSURF biodegradable surfactants; EVOCAR vinyl acetate ethylene; FILMTEC elements; FORTEFIBER soluble dietary fiber; FOUNDATIONS latex; Hydrocarbon resins; Industrial biocides; METHOCEL cellulose ethers; MORTRACE marking technologies; NEOCAR branched vinyl ester latexes; OPULYN opacifiers; POLYOX water-soluble resins; PRIMENE amines; Quaternaries; Reverse osmosis, electrodeionization and ultrafiltration modules; SATINFX delivery system; SATISFIT Weight Care Technology; SILK semiconductor dielectric resins; SOLTERRA Boost ultraviolet protection-boosting polymers; SOLTEX waterproofing polymer; SUNSPHERES SPF boosters; UCAR all-acrylic, styrene-acrylic and vinyl-acrylic latexes; UCAR POLYPHOBE rheology modifiers; UCARE polymers; UCARHIDE opacifier; WALOCEL cellulose polymers; WALSRODER nitrocellulose
The Electronic and Specialty Materials segment also includes the Companys share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants  construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing)  flexible and rigid packaging  general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts  house and traffic paints  leather, textile, graphic arts and paper  metal coatings  processing aids for plastic production  tapes and labels
Applications:
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging and leather, textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support more environmentally preferred applications.
Adhesives and Functional Polymers
 
is comprised of two global businesses  Dow Building Solutions and Dow Construction Chemicals  which offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also addressing the industry's emerging needs and demands. Additionally, Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the businesses products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a buildings carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment.
Dow Building and Construction
 
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
Dow Coating Materials
 
 
108
 
Tougheners; OROTAN and TAMOL dispersants; ROPAQUE opaque polymers; TRITON, TERGITOL, DOWFAX and ECOSURF SA surfactants
HEALTH AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils  control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Applications
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management and food service.
Dow AgroSciences
 
The Health and Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS
: automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems  bedding  caps and closures  food and specialty packaging  footwear  furniture  gaskets and sealing components  manufactured housing and modular construction  medical equipment  mining  pipe treatment  pressure sensitive adhesives  transportation  vinyl exteriors  waterproofing membranes  wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Applications
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demand for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, more comfortable and stylish. The business provides plastics, adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, films, fluids, structural enhancement and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers, tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Automotive Systems
 
offers a unique set of elastomers, specialty films and plastic additive products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers, synthetic rubber, specialty resins, and films and plastic additives. Key applications include adhesives, transportation, building and construction, packaging and consumer durables.
Dow Elastomers
 
 
109
 
 
is the worlds leading provider of polymers, additives and specialty oil technology-based solutions for electrical and telecommunication applications. Through its suite of polyolefin ENDURANCE products, the business sets industry standards for assurance of longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. In addition to world-class power, telecommunications and flame retardant/specialty cable applications, the business supports its product offerings with solid research, product development, engineering and market validation expertise.
Dow Wire and Cable
 
The business manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
Formulated Systems
 
The Performance Systems segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry, and Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance.
PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS
: adhesives  aircraft and runway deicing fluids  appliances  carpeting  chelating agents  chemical intermediates  civil engineering  cleaning products  coated paper and paperboard  composites  construction  corrosion inhibitors  detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners  electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling  electrical laminates  electronics  flavors and fragrances  flooring  footwear  gas treatment  heat transfer fluids  home and office furnishings  industrial coatings  mattresses  metalworking fluids  packaging  sealants  surfactants
Applications
The business is the worlds largest producer of ethanolamines, ethyleneamines and isopropanolamines used in a wide variety of applications, including gas treatment, heavy-duty liquid detergents, herbicide formulations for the agricultural industry and personal care products.
Amines
 
The business provides a broad line of styrene-butadiene products supporting customers in paper and paperboard applications, as well as carpet and artificial turf backings.
Emulsion Polymers
 
The business is the worlds largest producer of epoxy resins and intermediates. The business is the most feedstock-integrated supplier in the world. Epoxies provide good adhesion and coating protection over a range of environmental conditions, making them ideal for applications such as transportation, marine and civil engineering.
Epoxy
 
The business offers a full range of acetone derivatives, alcohols, esters, and ethylene- and propylene-based glycol ether products. The business is the industry leader in solvent products used in cleaning products, inks, electronics, mining, paints and coatings, personal care and other applications.
Oxygenated Solvents
 
 
110
 
 
 
The business is one of the worlds leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
Performance Fluids, Polyglycols and Surfactants
 
The business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
Performance Monomers
 
The business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dows polyurethane products are used in a broad range of applications including appliance, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture and shoe soles.
Polyurethanes
 
The Performance Products segment also includes the results of Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries, and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the OPTIMAL Group of Companies and the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
BASIC PLASTICS
: adhesives  appliances and appliance housings  agricultural films  automotive parts and trim  beverage bottles  bins, crates, pails and pallets  building and construction  coatings  consumer and durable goods  consumer electronics  disposable diaper liners  fibers and nonwovens  films, bags and packaging for food and consumer products  hoses and tubing  household and industrial bottles  housewares  hygiene and medical films  industrial and consumer films and foams  information technology  oil tanks and road equipment  plastic pipe  textiles  toys, playground equipment and recreational products  wire and cable compounds
Applications
The business is the worlds leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industrys broadest ranges of polyethylene resins.
Polyethylene
 
The business, a major global polypropylene supplier, provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dows leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
Polypropylene
 
 
111
 
 
The business, the global leader in the production of polystyrene resins, is uniquely positioned with geographic breadth and participation in a diversified portfolio of applications. Through market and technical leadership and low cost capability, the business continues to improve product performance and meet customer needs.
Styrenics
 
The Basic Plastics segment also includes the results of the Basic Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business and the Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends business. It also includes the results of Equipolymers, Americas Styrenics LLC and Univation Technologies (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
BASIC CHEMICALS
: agricultural products  alumina  automotive antifreeze and coolant systems  carpet and textiles  chemical processing  dry cleaning  household cleaners and plastic products  inks  metal cleaning  packaging, food and beverage containers   paints, coatings and adhesives  personal care products  petroleum refining  pharmaceuticals  plastic pipe  protective packaging  pulp and paper manufacturing  soaps and detergents  water treatment
Applications
The business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by downstream Dow derivatives, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents and building and construction. Dow is the worlds largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
 
The business is the worlds largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dows downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
 
The Basic Chemicals segment also includes the results of the Chlorinated Organics business. Also included in the Basic Chemicals segment are the results of MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. and the OPTIMAL Group of Companies, all joint ventures of the Company.
HYDROCARBONS AND ENERGY
: polymer and chemical production  power
Applications
The business encompasses the procurement of fuels, natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, power and steam principally for use in Dows global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
Hydrocarbons and Energy
 
The Hydrocarbons and Energy segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A. and a portion of the results of the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst
Corporate
 
112
 
activities; the Companys insurance operations and environmental operations; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments.
Transfers of products between operating segments are generally valued at cost. However, transfers of products to Health and Agricultural Sciences from other segments are generally valued at market-based prices; the revenues generated by these transfers are provided in the following table:
 
113
 
 
The Company operates 150 manufacturing sites in 35 countries. The United States is home to 42 of these sites, representing 53 percent of the Companys long-lived assets. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on customer location; long-lived assets are attributed to geographic areas based on asset location.
 
114
 
NOTE U  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Matters Involving the Acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company
Introduction
On July 10, 2008, the Company and Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) for the acquisition of Rohm and Haas for $78 in cash per share of Rohm and Haas common stock (the Merger). The Merger did not close in January 2009, as originally anticipated, in light of the Companys determination that recent material developments had created unacceptable uncertainties with respect to the funding and economics of the combined Dow and Rohm and Haas enterprise. This assessment was based on several macro-economic factors such as the continued crisis in global financial and credit markets and unprecedented demand destruction, combined with the failure of Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) of Kuwait to fulfill its obligation to close the K-Dow Petrochemicals (K-Dow) joint venture transaction and fund the initial purchase price on January 2, 2009.
Litigation
On January 26, 2009, Rohm and Haas commenced an action in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware to compel the Company to acquire Rohm and Haas for $78 in cash per share of Rohm and Haas common stock (plus a ticking fee commencing on January 10, 2009). The complaint (the Complaint) in the action alleges that all conditions to the Companys obligation to close the Merger were met on January 23, 2009 and that the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, was required to close the Merger within two business days thereafter, ., by January 27, 2009. The Complaint further alleges that the Company advised Rohm and Haas on January 25, 2009 that it would not close the Merger on or by January 27, 2009, and that the Company knowingly and intentionally breached the Merger Agreement.
i.e
 
On January 27, 2009, the Court determined to expedite proceedings in the case and ordered that the trial commence on March 9, 2009. The trial will relate to the issue of whether the Court should order specific performance and thus require the Company to close the Merger. The Court also stated that it strongly encouraged the parties to focus on a business solution to the dispute.
 
On February 3, 2009, the Company filed its answer (the Answer) to the Complaint. The Answer denied that all conditions to closing had been met as of January 23, 2009, noting that the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) action on January 23, 2009 was only a provisional acceptance of the proposed consent order and not final approval, and that the FTC reserves discretion to reject the proposed consent order after the close of the public comment period. The Answer denied that Rohm and Haas is entitled to a decree of specific performance, and asserted affirmative defenses of frustration of purpose, commercial impracticability, impossibility of performance and undue hardship  all arising from the sudden and rapid economic and financial downturn, the dramatic falloff in the Companys earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, the risk of the Companys inability to comply with financial covenants contained in the bridge loan expected to provide temporary financing for the Merger, the risk of the Company losing access to the capital markets due to potential loss of its investment grade rating, and the collapse of the K-Dow joint venture. The Company also asserted that specific performance is not appropriate because Rohm and Haas has adequate remedies at law for any breach of the Merger Agreement.
Summary
Because of the uncertainties associated with the litigation described above, management cannot estimate the impact of the ultimate resolution of the litigation. It is the opinion of the Companys management that it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 
115
 
NOTE V  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Divestiture of the Calcium Chloride Business
On June 30, 2009, the Company completed the sale of the Calcium Chloride business. The results of operations of the Calcium Chloride business have been reclassified as discontinued operations and are reflected as Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented.
 
The following table presents the results of discontinued operations:
 
116
 
 
 
117
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
118
 
 
 


