FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20100428084923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2010, The Dow Chemical Company issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing results for the first quarter of 2010.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1  Press release issued by The Dow Chemical Company on April 28, 2010, announcing results for the first quarter of 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter 2010 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Andrew N. Liveris, Dows chairman and chief executive officer, stated:
 
The earnings power of Dows new portfolio was evident this quarter with our robust sales growth driven by significant volume and price increases in all geographic areas, with notable improvements in North America and Europe. When combined with broad-based EBITDA margin expansion and record equity earnings, this enabled us to achieve greatly improved operating results.
 
Our focus on delivering against our commitments, especially on structural cost reductions while continuing to invest for growth in our new portfolio, was on full display again in the quarter. I am particularly pleased with the accelerated
growth in our Performance businesses, as well as the continued growth in emerging geographies. This is right on strategy for the new Dow.
 
 
Review of First Quarter Results
 
Note: All sales, price and volume comparisons are presented on a pro forma basis excluding divestitures and recent seed acquisitions in Health and Agricultural Sciences unless otherwise specified.
 
The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) delivered sales of $13.4 billion for the first quarter of 2010, representing a 33 percent increase compared with sales in the same period last year on a pro forma basis excluding divestitures. Top-line growth was driven by a 16 percent increase in volume and a 17 percent increase in price. Sales increased in all geographic areas with increases ranging from 26 percent (Latin America) to 51 percent (Asia Pacific).
 
Double-digit volume increases were reported in all geographic areas and in all operating segments versus the first quarter of 2009, except Basic Plastics and Health and Agricultural Sciences. The combined Performance Segments achieved a 26 percent increase in volume year-over-year, excluding Health and Agricultural Sciences, which was down from the record sales volumes of the first quarter 2009.
 
From a geographic perspective, North America and EMEA each delivered volume gains of 11 percent, while emerging geographies delivered volume growth of 27 percent versus one year ago. Strong demand growth was led by Greater China, which was up 46 percent. In addition, volume grew by 20 percent or more versus the same period last year in Brazil, India and Eastern Europe.
 
Broad-based pricing gains were achieved over the same period last year in all geographic areas and in Coatings and Infrastructure, Performance Systems, Performance Products, Basic Plastics and Basic Chemicals.
 
 
 
 
Sequentially, sales increased 8 percent, with volume and price each up 4 percent. Compared with the last quarter, volume grew in North America and EMEA, while price was up in all areas except EMEA, which remained flat. Sales were also up across all operating segments, with the exception of Basic Chemicals, which decreased 2 percent.
 
First quarter 2010 EBITDA excluding certain items was $1.8 billion, representing an $877 million increase versus the same quarter of 2009 on a pro forma basis, and up $356 million versus the last quarter. Within the combined Performance segments, EBITDA was up more than 60 percent versus the year-ago period.
 
Net income from continuing operations for the quarter was $552 million. This compares with net income from continuing operations of $24 million in the first quarter of 2009, and $178 million last quarter.
 
Reported earnings for the current quarter were $0.41 per share versus earnings of $0.03 per share in the first quarter of 2009.
 
The Company earned $0.43 per share in the quarter, excluding certain items. This compares with earnings of $0.11 per share in the same quarter last year, excluding certain items and discontinued operations. Certain items in the current quarter included adjustments related to the 2009 restructuring plan equal to $0.01 per share, and Rohm and Haas acquisition- and integration-related expenses of $0.01 per share. (See supplemental information at the end of the release for a description of certain items affecting results.)
 
The Companys global operating rate in the first quarter of 2010 was 83 percent, a 15 percentage point increase from the first quarter of 2009, which was impacted by the severe economic downturn. On a sequential basis, Dows operating rate
increased 7 percentage points, reflecting ongoing strength in the global economic recovery. Despite unplanned outages, the Company experienced positive momentum in its global operating rates as the quarter progressed.
 
Synergies related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas and structural cost reductions continue to exceed Company goals, with savings of $275 million in the quarter and $1.5 billion program-to-date, resulting in an annualized run-rate of $1.8 billion.
 
Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses on a pro forma basis declined 8 percent from the same period last year despite a 15 percent increase in Health and Agricultural Sciences, which was driven by new product launches and commercial activities related to recent seed acquisitions.
 
This was achieved while also increasing R&D spending 10 percent year-over-year on a pro forma basis, with increased investment in Health and Agricultural Sciences and Coatings and Infrastructure.
 
Equity earnings for the quarter were a record $304 million, up more than $200 million compared with the same period of 2009, driven by improved results at Dow Corning and the Companys joint ventures in Kuwait. This is the fifth consecutive quarter of sequential growth in equity earnings, excluding certain items.
 
The earnings power of Dows new portfolio was evident this quarter with our robust sales growth driven by significant volume and price increases in all geographic areas, with notable improvements in North America and Europe, said Andrew N. Liveris, Dows chairman and chief executive officer. When combined with broad-based EBITDA margin expansion and record equity earnings, this enabled us to achieve greatly improved operating results.
 
Our focus on delivering against our commitments, especially on structural cost reductions while continuing to invest for growth in our new portfolio, was on full display again in the quarter. I am
 
 
 
 
particularly pleased with the accelerated growth in our Performance businesses, as well as the continued growth in emerging geographies. This is right on strategy for the new Dow.
 
 
Electronic and Specialty Materials
 
Sales in the Electronic and Specialty Materials segment were $1.3 billion, up 30 percent versus the same quarter last year. Volume increased 31 percent, while price was down 1 percent. Global demand for electronics remained firm in the quarter, reflecting a continuation of the industrys recovery from the low point reached in the year-ago period. Within Dow Electronic Materials, all business units reported double-digit sales growth versus the same period of 2009, with substantial volume growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific, particularly in Greater China. Sales in Specialty Materials rose versus the same period last year due to higher demand across all business units. Dow Water and Process Solutions sales grew substantially, as demand increased for reverse osmosis membranes across all geographic areas, and for i on exchange resins and component systems in Asia Pacific. Dow Wolff Cellulosics reported a year-over-year increase in volume, primarily driven by underlying consumer demand in food and nutrition, as well as construction. Equity earnings for the segment were $113 million, reflecting continued strong performance at Dow Corning. This compares with equity earnings of $5 million in the same period last year, which was reduced by Dows $29 million share of a restructuring charge recognized by Dow Corning. EBITDA for the segment was $381 million. This compares with EBITDA of $93 million in the same period last year, which was reduced by the Dow Corning restructuring charge.
 
Coatings and Infrastructure
 
Sales in Coatings and Infrastructure were $1.2 billion, up 21 percent compared with the same period last year. Volume increased 16 percent and price was up 5 percent. Year-over-year volume growth was reported across all geographic areas, led by Asia Pacific, EMEA and Latin America. Dow Coating Materials reported higher sales versus the same period last year, driven by both volume and price gains. While residential construction is recovering around the world, emerging geography demand growth outpaced that of developed regions. Dow Building and Construction reported higher year-over-year sales in most geographic areas, led by Asia Pacific and by the successfully launched next-generation STYROFOAM brand insulation in North America. In Dow Adhesives and Functional Polymers, demand was up in all geographic areas, driven b y transportation and packaging applications. EBITDA for the segment was $116 million, which was reduced by restructuring charges of $5 million. This compares with EBITDA of $121 million in the same period last year, which included a charge of $1 million for restructuring activities.
 
Health and Agricultural Sciences
 
Sales in Health and Agricultural Sciences were $1,344 million, down from $1,461 million in the year-ago period. (Reported sales for the first quarter of 2010 were $1,369 million, including the impact from recent seed acquisitions.) Volume declined 6 percent, while price was down 2 percent. Strong farmer acceptance of new products and seed acquisitions partially offset the impact of unseasonably cold spring weather across the Northern Hemisphere and continued pricing pressure on certain agricultural chemicals. Volume and price declined in Agricultural Chemicals as strong growth of
 
 
 
 
 
new products such as pyroxsulam cereal herbicide, penoxsulam rice herbicide and spinetoram insecticide were more than offset by continued excess industry supply of glyphosate, which affected both price and volume compared with the year-ago period. Seeds, Traits and Oils reported sales growth in all major product lines, with the strongest volume gains in corn in North America, EMEA and Latin America. Cotton seeds sales increased significantly versus the same period last year. The commercial launch of corn hybrids continues to progress on schedule and is meeting all milestones. EBITDA for Health and Agricultural Sciences was $384 million for the quarter, up from EBITDA of $363 million in the first quarter of 2009, primarily based on raw materials and operational cost improvements, and an enhanced sales mix.
SmartStax
 
 
 
Sales in Performance Systems were $1.7 billion, up 30 percent compared with sales of $1.3 billion in the same quarter last year. Volume increased 27 percent, and price was up 3 percent. Volume increased across all geographic areas, as well as in every business unit. Dow Automotive and Dow Elastomers reported the highest volume growth, largely driven by a pronounced increase in automotive demand, particularly in North America and China. Dow Automotive secured additional business with its new BETASEAL glass bonding technology, which reduces cure times and delivers productivity gains for customers. Dow Elastomers benefited from robust demand for packaging applications in all geographic areas. Formulated Systems posted volume gains, most notably in Asia Pacific, driven by sales into wind energy applications in China for epoxy systems. Volume for Dow Wire and Cable expanded in the quarter, although at a tempered pace due to continued weakness in construction and infrastructure spending, primarily in North America. EBITDA for Performance Systems was $204 million in the quarter, compared with $103 million in the year-ago period.
 
Performance Products
 
Sales in Performance Products were $2.8 billion, up 41 percent compared with sales of $2.0 billion in the same quarter of last year. Volume rose 27 percent and price rose 14 percent. Volume was up across all business units and geographic areas, led by Asia Pacific. Volume growth in the Polyurethanes business was reported in all geographic areas, helped by higher sales of propylene glycol, and improving demand and favorable supply/demand balances for toluene diisocyanate (TDI). The Epoxy business reported volume gains in all geographic areas, led by Asia Pacific and Latin America. Oxygenated Solvents volumes have rebounded to pre-recession levels, with particularly strong growth in automotive coatings and electronics in China. Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids reported significant volume gains in de-icers, especi ally in North America, which experienced particularly harsh winter weather conditions. The business continues to win contracts in Europe for heat transfer fluids used in new concentrating solar power plants. Amines reported double-digit volume growth in all geographic areas, led by North America and Asia Pacific. First quarter EBITDA for the segment was $290 million, which included restructuring charges of $3 million. This compares with EBITDA of $147 million in the year-ago period.
 
 
 
TM
SmartStax multi-event technology developed by Dow AgroSciences and Monsanto. SmartStax is a trademark of Monsanto Technology, LLC.
 
 
 
 
 
Basic Plastics
 
Sales in the Basic Plastics segment were $3.0 billion, up 49 percent from the same quarter last year, as volume increased
5 percent and price increased 44 percent. Price increases were reported in all geographic areas. Polyethylene was the largest contributor to both volume and price increases. Relatively low production costs in North America and a comparatively weak U.S. dollar supported continued export opportunities, enabling the business to achieve double-digit volume growth in developing regions in Asia Pacific and Latin America. Polypropylene recorded volume growth, primarily due to strengthening demand in North America and EMEA. Volume growth in North America was driven by domestic demand, as production costs did not generate favorable export economics. In Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends, substantial volume gains in EMEA and Asia Pacific, driven by consumer electronics, more than offset declines in the other geographic areas. Equity e arnings for the segment were $65 million. This compares with equity earnings of $23 million in the year-ago period. EQUATE and Siam Polyethylene were the key contributors to the increase in equity earnings. Basic Plastics EBITDA for the quarter was $718 million. This compares with EBITDA of $122 million in the year-ago period.
 
Basic Chemicals
 
Sales in the Basic Chemicals segment were $714 million, up 22 percent from the same period last year. Volume increased 16 percent and price was up 6 percent. The Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl business reported higher sales versus the same period last year. Demand for caustic soda rose substantially in North America, due to an emerging recovery in the alumina and the pulp and paper industries. While caustic soda prices are improving sequentially, they are below the level of the year- ago period. Vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) sales were higher than the year-ago period as price increases more than offset a decline in volume. Demand for VCM continued to be relatively weak due to low infrastructure spending in the United States, and the low level of new housing construction. Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol results benefited from h igher sales and higher equity earnings in the quarter. Price increases were driven by substantially higher ethylene costs and tighter global supply/demand balances. Sales were partly offset by lower volumes compared with the same quarter of last year primarily due to the shutdown of the ethylene oxide / ethylene glycol plant in the United Kingdom. Equity earnings were $98 million for the quarter, compared with $40 million in the year-ago period, due to improved results in the Companys MEGlobal and EQUATE joint ventures. EBITDA for the quarter was $120 million versus a loss of $5 million in the year-ago period.
 
Outlook
 
Commenting on the Companys outlook, Liveris said:
 
Our double-digit volume improvements in North America and Europe are positive signs that demand growth is returning to developed markets. Strengthening consumer spending in areas such as electronics, appliances and automotive, combined with strong growth in emerging geographies, are driving broad-based manufacturing momentum. This, coupled with our global operating rates returning to levels not seen since the second quarter of 2008, points increasingly to a sustainable upturn.
 
 
 
 
 
Some challenges remain in areas such as residential and commercial construction in developed economies, inflation concerns in high-growth emerging countries plus sovereign debt issues in southern Europe. However, consumer and business spending has balanced out these challenges. Overall the global economic environment is on a stronger footing and there are signs that this will continue for the foreseeable future. This is good news for Dow.
 
We have made steady progress quarter after quarter, and I am pleased that this quarter was yet another example of that plan in full motion. We remain focused on delivering our commitments. This means maintaining operational and financial discipline, further strengthening our balance sheet and investing for growth. Our actions to deliver a new portfolio with a lean cost structure and reinvigorated innovation engine, coupled with our strong presence in emerging geographies, leave Dow poised to deliver continued earnings growth.
 
Dow will host a live Webcast of its first quarter earnings conference call with investors to discuss its results, business outlook and other matters today at 10:00 a.m. ET on .
www.dow.com
 
 
About Dow
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the worlds most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dows diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses delivers a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately 160 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In 2009, Dow had annual sales of $45 billion and employed approximately 52,000 peop le worldwide. The Companys more than 5,000 products are manufactured at 214 sites in 37 countries across the globe. References to "Dow" or the "Company" mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise expressly noted. More information about Dow can be found at www.dow.com.
 
 
 
Use of non-GAAP measures: Dows management believes that measures of income excluding certain items (non-GAAP measures) provide relevant and meaningful information to investors about the ongoing operating results of the Company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures are provided in the Supplemental Information tables.
 
 
Note: The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Information
Description of Certain Items Affecting Results:
Results in the first quarter of 2010 were unfavorably impacted by two items:
Results in the first quarter of 2009 were unfavorably impacted by three items:
In addition to the items described above for the first quarter of 2009, pro forma results of continuing operations in the first quarter of 2009 were impacted by the following Rohm and Haas items:
The following table summarizes the impact of certain items recorded in the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009:
(3)    Impact on Earnings per common share  diluted
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


