FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20100218085730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
The documents listed below (the Documents) are required to be filed as exhibits to The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the 10-K).  For administrative convenience and to avoid further increasing the size of the 10-K, the Company is filing the Documents as exhibits to this optional Current Report on Form 8-K and will incorporate the Documents into the 10-K by reference hereto.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 
 
The purpose of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Plan) is to aid The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries in retaining and attracting executive employees by providing them with tax deferred savings opportunities.  The Plan provides a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301 (a)3 and 401 (a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) and therefore exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA, of The Dow Chemical Company with the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of specified portions of compensation, and to have these deferred amounts treated as if invested in specified Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  The Plan shall be effective for deferral elections made hereunder on or after January 1, 2001.  The benefits provided under the Plan shall be provided in consideration for services to be performed after the effective date of the Plan, but prior to the executives retirement.
Effective December 15, 1994, The Dow Chemical Company originally adopted The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan.  Minor amendments were made to the Plan on December 11, 1997. On October 19, 2000 The Dow Chemical Company amended and restated the Plan, to be effective as of January 1, 2001, to read as set forth in this Plan document.  Minor amendments to the restated Plan were made on December 11, 2000, September 10, 2001, October 4, 2001, September 9, 2002, December 2, 2002, February 3, 2003, April 7, 2003, July 7, 2003, August 4, 2003 and December 10, 2003.  The Dow Chemical Company again restated the Plan on August 6, 2004, effective as of January 1  2001, in order to clarify certain provisions of the Plan.  Minor amendments to the restated Plan were made on October 7, 2004. Effective September 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007, The Dow Chemical Company amended the Plan to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  On January 1, 2010, minor amendments to the Plan were made via a Plan restatement due to change in the third party administrator of the plan to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, to clarify the valuation date used for the calculation of installment payments, and to eliminate the small balance distribution.  On January 4, 2010, deferrals allocated to The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund were converted to the Dow Stock Fund.
For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
                        Administrator means the Retirement Board appointed under The DowEmployees Pension Plan.
          
Section 2.01
Administrator.
 
                       Base Salary means the annual base rate of pay from the Company at which a Participant is employed (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions under (A) deferrals pursuant to Section 4.02 and (B) contributions made on his or her behalf to any qualified plan maintained by any Company or to any cafeteria plan under Section 125 of The Internal Revenue Code maintained by any Company.
          
Section 2.02
Base Salary.
                       .  Base Salary Deferral means the amount of a Participants Base Salary which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his Base Salary and credited to his or her Deferral Account pursuant to Section 4.02.
          
Section 2.03
Base Salary Deferral
 . Beneficiary means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to Article VIII.
 
                              
Section 2.04
Beneficiary
 
5
 
                         Board means the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical Company.
          
Section 2.05
Board.
                        For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred upon: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of The Dow Chemical Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of The Dow Chemical Company with one or more corporations as a result of which The Chemical Company is not a surviving corporation; (iii) approval by the stockholders of The Dow Chemical Company of any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one or series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of The Dow Chemical Company; (iv) approval by the stockholders of The Dow Chemical Company of any merger or consolidation of The Dow Chemical Company in which the holders of the voting stock of The Dow Chemical Company immediately before the merger or consolidation will not own fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting shares of the continuing or surviving corporation immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (v) a change of fifty-one percent (51%) (rounded to the next whole person) in the membership of the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical Company within a twenty-four (24) month period, unless the election or nomination for election by stockholders of each new director within such period was approved by the vote of eighty-five percent (85%) (rounded to the next whole person) of the directors still in office who were in office at the beginning of the twenty-four month period.
          
Section 2.06
Change of Control.
Dow
                       Common Stock means the common stock of The Dow Chemical Company.
          
Section 2.07
Common Stock.
                       .  Company means The Dow Chemical Company, its successors, any subsidiary or affiliated organizations authorized by the Board or the Retirement Board to participate in the Plan and any organization into which or with which The Dow Chemical Company may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.
          
Section 2.08
Company
                       .  Deferral Account means the notional account established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to Article VI.
          
Section 2.09
Deferral Account
                       . Deferral Period is defined in Section 4.02.
          
Section 2.10
Deferral Period
 
                       . Deferred Amount is defined in Section 4.02.
          
Section 2.11
Deferred Amount
                       . Designee shall mean The Dow Chemical Companys North American Compensation Resource Center to whom The Retirement Board has delegated the authority to take action under the Plan.
          
Section 2.12
Designee
                         Disability means eligibility for disability benefits under the terms of the Long-Term Disability Plan maintained by The Dow Chemical Company. The Retirement Board, in its complete and sole discretion, shall determine a Participants disability.  The Administrator may require that the Participant submit to an examination on an annual basis, at the expense of the Company at which such Participant was employed, by a competent physician or medical clinic selected by the Retirement Board to confirm Disability. On The basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Retirement Board as to whether or not a condition of Disability exists or continues shall be conclusive.
          
Section 2.13
Disability.
                         Eligible Compensation means any Base Salary, Performance Awards or Other Bonuses and any other monies deemed to be eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company.
          
Section 2.14
Eligible Compensation.
                       . Eligible Employee means a key employee of any Company who: (i) is a United States employee or an expatriate who is paid from one of The Dow Chemical Companys U.S. entities, (ii) is a member of the functional specialist/functional leader or global leadership job families, (iii) has a job level of 1.2 or higher, (iv) is eligible for participation in the Savings Plan, (v) is designated by the Administrator as eligible to participate in the Plan as of September 30 for deferral of Base Salary and Performance Awards, and (vi) qualifies as a member of the select group of management or highly compensated employees under ERISA.
          
Section 2.15
Eligible Employee
                       . ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
          
Section 2.16
ERISA
                         Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock means the closing price of The Dow Chemical Companys Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the most recent day on which the Common Stock so traded that precedes the date the Fair Market Value is to be determined. The definition of Fair Market Value in this Section shall be exclusively used to determine the values of a Participants interest in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund (defined in Section 6.02(b)) for all relevant purposes under the Plan.
          
Section 2.17
Fair Market Value.
was
 
6
 
                       Form of Payment means payment in one lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years.
          
Section 2.18
Form of Payment.
                       . Hardship Withdrawal means the early payment of all or part of the balance in a Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
          
Section 2.19
Hardship Withdrawal
                       . Hypothetical Investment Benchmark shall mean the phantom investment benchmarks which are used to measure the return credited to a Participants Deferral Account.
          
Section 2.20
Hypothetical Investment Benchmark
                       .  Matching Contribution means the amount of annual matching contribution that each Company will make to the Plan,
          
Section 2.21
Matching Contribution
 
                       .  Other Bonus means the amount awarded to a Participant for a Plan Year under any other incentive plan maintained by any Company that has been established and authorized as eligible for deferral.
          
Section 2.22
Other Bonus
                       .  Other Deferral means the amount of a Participants Other Bonus which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
          
Section 2.23
Other Deferral
                       .  Participant means any individual who is eligible and makes an election to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV.
          
Section 2.24
Participant
                       .  Participation Agreement means an agreement filed by a Participant in accordance with Article lv.
          
Section 2.25
Participation Agreement
                       .  Performance Awards means the amount paid in cash to the Participant by any Company in the form of annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year.
          
Section 2.26
Performance Awards
                       .  Performance Deferral means the amount of a Participants Performance Award which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Performance Award and credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
          
Section 2.27
Performance Deferral
                         Phantom Share Units means units of deemed investment in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock so determined under Section 6.02(b).
          
Section 2.28
Phantom Share Units.
                       .  Plan Year means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.
          
Section 2.29
Plan Year
                       Retirement means normal or early retirement of a Participant from the Companies after attaining age 65 or age 50 with at least ten years of service under the Dow Employees Pension Plan or any other defined benefit pension plan maintained by a Company under which a Participant is eligible to receive a benefit.
          
Section 2.30
Retirement.
                       .  Retirement Board means the general administrator of the Plan appointed under the Dow Employees Pension Plan.
          
Section 2.31
Retirement Board
                      .  Savings Plan means The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan as it currently exists and as it may subsequently be amended.
          
Section 2.32
Savings Plan
                         Section 16 Participant means an officer or director of The Dow Chemical Company required to report transactions in The Dow Chemical Company securities to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
          
Section 2.33
Section 16 Participant.
                         Termination of Employment means the cessation of a Participants services as an employee of the Companies, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than Retirement, Disability or Death.
          
Section 2.34
Termination of Employment.
 
7
 
                       .  Unforeseeable Emergency means severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participants property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Administrator.
          
Section 2.35
Unforeseeable Emergency
                       Valuation Date means the last day of each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.   Effective January 1, 2010, Valuation Date means the 4 day of the month or the prior business day of each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
          
Section 2.36
Valuation Date.
th
                       .  This Plan shall be administered by the Retirement Board. The Retirement Board shall consist of not less than three members who may, but need not be employed by any Company.  Each person appointed to the Retirement Board shall signify acceptance of his or her position and may resign by delivery of a written notice to The Dow Chemical Company.  The Dow Chemical Company may remove any member at its pleasure by delivery of a written notice to the member. In the event of any vacancy in membership, The Dow Chemical Company shall (or, if at least three members are then serving, may in its discretion) appoint a successor to fill the vacancy in office; provided, however, that the Retirement Board may exercise its lull authority and discretion notwithstanding the existence of any vacancy. Members shall serve without compensation for their services.  The Retirement Board shall act by a majority of its members by vote at a meeting or by unanimous consent in writing. If all members of the Retirement Board are not available, a quorum, consisting of three (3) members of the Retirement Board, may act by a majority of the quorum.  It may authorize one or more of its members to execute documents in its behalf.  Any person, upon written notification of the authorization, shall accept and rely upon that authorization until notified in writing that the Retirement Board has revoked the authorization.  The Retirement Board shall appoint a secretary (who may or may not be a Retirement Board member) to keep all minutes of its meetings and to receive and deliver all notices.  The secretary shall record and, where appropriate, communicate to all persons affected all delegations made by the Retirement Board of its responsibilities, any rules and procedures adopted by the Retirement Board and all other formal actions taken by the Retirement Board.  No member of the Retirement Board shall vote or act on any matter relating solely to him/herself.  The Administrator may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment that enables all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting and waiver of notice of such meeting.
          
Section 3.01
Administrator Duties
The Retirement Board shall be responsible for the administration of this Plan and shall have all powers necessary to administer this Plan, including discretionary authority to determine eligibility for benefits and to decide claims under the terms of this Plan, except to the extent that any such powers that are specially vested in any other person administering this Plan by the Administrator.  The Administrator may from time to time establish rules for the administration of this Plan, and it shall have the exclusive right to interpret this Plan and to decide any matters arising in connection with the administration and operation of this Plan. All rules, interpretations and decisions of the Administrator shall be conclusive and binding on any Company, Participants and Beneficiaries.
The Retirement Board has delegated to the North American Compensation Resource Center responsibility for performing certain administrative and ministerial functions under this Plan.  The Designee shall be responsible for determining in the first instance issues related to eligibility, Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, distribution of Deferred Amounts, determination of account balances, crediting of hypothetical earnings and debiting of hypothetical losses and of distributions, withdrawals, deferral elections and any other duties concerning the day-to-day operation of this Plan.  The Retirement Board shall have discretion to delegate such additional duties as it may determine.  The Designee may retain and supervise outside providers, third party administrators, record keepers and professionals (including in-house professionals) to perform any or all of the duties delegated to it hereunder.
Neither The Dow Chemical Company, any other Company, a member of the Board, a member of the Retirement Board nor any Designee shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of omission or commission, by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the administration of this Plan have been delegated or for anything done or omitted to be done in connection with this Plan.
 
8
 
The Dow Chemical Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify each director, officer or employee of The Dow Chemical Company (including the heirs, executors, administrators and other personal representatives of such person), each member of the Retirement Board and any Designee against expenses (including attorneys tees), judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with any threatened, pending or actual suit, action or proceeding (whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative in nature or otherwise) in which such person may be involved by reason of the fact that he or she is or was serving this Plan in any capacity at the request of The Dow Chemical Company, the Administrator or Designee.
Any expense incurred by The Dow Chemical Company or the Administrator relative to the administration of this Plan shall be paid by The Dow Chemical Company and/or may be deducted from the Deferral Accounts of the Participants as determined by the Administrator or Designee.
                       .  If a Participant or Beneficiary makes a written request alleging a right to receive payments under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under this Plan, such actions shall be treated as a claim for benefits.  All claims for benefits under this Plan shall be sent to the Designee.  If the Designee determines that any individual who has claimed a right to receive benefits, or different benefits, under this Plan is not entitled to receive all or any part of the benefits claimed, the Designee shall inform the claimant in writing of such determination and the reasons therefore in terms calculated to be understood by the claimant.  The notice shall be sent within 60 days of the claim unless the Designee determines that additional time, not exceeding 60 additional days, is needed and so notifies the claimant.  The notice shall make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, and shall describe any additional material or information that is necessary to perfect the claim.  Such notice shall, in addition, inform the claimant of the procedure that the claimant should follow to take advantage of the review procedures set forth below in the event the claimant desires to contest the denial of the claim.  The claimant may within 60 days thereafter submit in writing to the Administrator a notice that the claimant contests the denial of his or her claim and desires a further review by the Administrator.  The Administrator shall within 60 days thereafter review the claim and authorize the claimant to review pertinent documents and submit issues and comments relating to the claim to the Administrator.  The Administrator will render a final decision on behalf of The Dow Chemical Company with specific reasons therefore in writing and will transmit it to the claimant within 60 days of the written request for review, unless the Administrator determines that additional time, not exceeding 60 days, is needed, and so notifies the claimant.  If the Administrator fails to respond to a claim filed in accordance with the foregoing within 60 days or any such extended period, the claim shall be deemed to have been denied.  If such determination is favorable to the claimant, it shall be binding and conclusive.  If such determination is adverse to the claimant, it shall be binding and conclusive unless the claimant notifies the Retirement Board within 90 days after the mailing or delivery to him or her by the Retirement Board of its determination that he or she intends to institute legal proceedings challenging the determination of the Retirement Board, and actually institutes such legal proceeding within 180 days after such mailing or delivery.
          
Section 3.02
Claim Procedure
                       .  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Administrator.  A Participation Agreement must be filed on or prior to the November 30 immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is effective.  The Administrator shall have the discretion to establish special deadlines regarding the filing of Participation Agreements for Participants.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Retirement Board, in its sole discretion, may permit a newly eligible Participant to submit a Participation Agreement within 30 days of that employee becoming eligible, and deferrals shall commence as soon as practical thereafter.  An individual shall not be eligible to elect to participate in this Plan unless the individual is a Participant for the Plan Year for which the election is made.  In the event a Participant transfers to a subsidiary of any Company and such subsidiary does not participate in the Plan, the Participants Deferred Amount shall cease, and the Participants Deferral Account shall remain in effect until such time as the benefits are distributed as originally elected by the Participant in the Participation Agreement.
          
Section 4.01
Participation
                       .  Subject to Article VII, each Participation Agreement shall set forth: (i) the amount of Eligible Compensation for the Plan Year or performance period to which the Participation Agreement relates that is to be deferred under the Plan (the Deferred Amount), expressed as either a dollar amount or a percentage of the Base Salary and Performance Awards for such Plan Year or performance period; , that the minimum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year or performance period shall not be less than 5% (in 5% increments) of Base
          
Section 4.02
Contents of Participation Agreement
provided
 
9
 
Salary and/or 5% (in 5% increments) of Performance Award/Other Bonus; (ii) the maximum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year or performance period shall not exceed 50% of Base Salary and 85% of Performance Award/Other Bonus; (iii) the period after which payment of the Deferred Amount is to be made or begin to be made (the Deferral Period), which shall be (A) a specific future year, not greater than the year the Participant reaches age 70 34 or (B) the period ending upon the Retirement or prior termination of employment of the Participant; and (iv) the form in which payments are to be made, which may be a lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years. Participation Agreements are to be completed in a format specified by the Administrator.
 . A Participant may not change the amount of his or her Deferred Amount during a Plan Year. A Participants Participation Agreement may not be made, modified or revoked retroactively, nor may a deferral period be shortened or reduced except as expressly provided in this Plan. For deferrals to occur from Performance Awards, the Participant must be actively employed, an eligible retiree or a member of an entire class of employees identified by the Administrator as eligible under Section 7.10.
                               
Section 4.03
Modification or Revocation of Election by Participant
                       .  Except for Section 16 Participants, the Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participants Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. For Section 16 Participants who elect to direct their Deferred Amount to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund only, the Deferred Amount of that Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation shall be credited to the Participants Deferral Account in the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of 125% of Ten Year Treasury Notes as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant; on a quarterly basis (on the last business day of the months of March, June, September and December), such Deferred Amount shall be reallocated to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.  If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Companys Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participants Base Salary, Performance Award or Other Bonus.  Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings based on a Participants investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the Administrator from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
          
Section 5.01
Elective Deferred Compensation
                        Except as provided in Sections 7.03 and 7.15, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account as of each Valuation Date.
          
Section 5.02
Vesting of Deferral Account.
                       .  Separate Deferral Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant.  More than one Deferral Account may be maintained for a Participant as necessary to reflect (a) various Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks and/or (b) separate Participation Agreements specifying different Deferral Periods and/or forms of payment.  A Participants Deferral Account(s) shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan, and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  The Administrator shall determine the balance of each Deferral Account, as of each Valuation Dale, by adjusting the balance of such Deferral Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date to reflect changes in the value of the deemed investments thereof, credits and debits pursuant to Section 6.02 and Section 7.03 and distributions pursuant to Article VII with respect to such Deferral Account since the preceding Valuation Date.
          
Section 6.01
Maintenance of Accounts
 
                       .  (a) Each Participant shall be entitled to direct the manner in which his or her Deferral Accounts will be deemed to be invested, selecting among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the Administrator from time to time, and in accordance with
          
Section 6.02
Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
 
10
 
such rules, regulations and procedures as the Administrator may establish from time to time.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, earnings and losses based on a Participants investment elections shall begin to accrue as of the date such Participants Deferral Amounts are credited to his or her Deferral Accounts. Participants, except for Section 16 Participants, can reallocate among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks on a daily basis. Section 16 Participants can reallocate among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks in accordance with such rules, regulations and procedures as the Administrator may establish from time to time.  This reallocation capability is extended to the monies associated with deferrals for services performed on or after January 1, 2001.  Account balances from deferrals that occurred prior to January 1, 2001 will maintain the investment direction authorized under similar prior plans.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, once within 180 days after Retirement a Participant may reallocate deferrals that occurred prior to January 1, 2001 between The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund and the 125% of Ten Year Treasury Note Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.
(b) (i)    The Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks available for Deferral Accounts will include The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund. The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund will consist of deemed investments in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock including reinvestment of dividends, stock splits and without brokerage fees.  Deferred Amounts that are deemed to be invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be converted into Phantom Share Units based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date(s) the Deferred Amounts are to be credited to a Deferral Account.  The portion of any Deferral Account that is invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be credited, as of each dividend payment date, with additional Phantom Share Units of Common Stock with respect to cash dividends paid on the Common Stock with record dates during the period beginning on the day after the most recent preceding Valuation Date and ending on such Valuation Date.
(ii) When a reallocation or a distribution of all or a portion of a Deferral Account that is invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund is to be made, the balance in such a Deferral Account shall be determined by multiplying the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the most recent Valuation Date preceding the date of such reallocation or distribution by the number of Phantom Share Units to be reallocated or distributed.  Upon a distribution, the amounts in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be distributed in the form of cash having a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a comparable number of actual shares of Common Stock.
(iii) In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, or other change in the corporate structure of The Dow Chemical Company affecting Common Stock, or a sale by The Dow Chemical Company of all or part of its assets, or any distribution to stockholders other than a normal cash dividend, then the Administrator may make appropriate adjustments to the number of deemed shares credited to any Deferral Account.  The determination of the Retirement Board as to such adjustments, if any, to be made shall be conclusive.
(iv) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Administrator shall adopt such procedures as it may determine are necessary to ensure that with respect to any Participant who is actually or potentially subject to Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the crediting of deemed shares to his or her Deferral Account is deemed to be an exempt purchase for purposes of such Section 16(b), including without limitation requiring that no shares of Common Stock or cash relating to such deemed shares may be distributed for six months after being credited to such Deferral Account.
 
 
          
Section 6.03
                      .  Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Deferral Account(s) in such form as the Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Deferral Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.
Statement of Accounts
                       .  At the end of the Deferral Period for each Deferral Account, The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to the Participant the balance of such Deferral Account at the time or times elected by the Participant in the applicable Participation Agreement.  If the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the balance of such Participants Deferral Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for any such payments.  If the Participant has elected to receive payments from a Deferral Account in a lump sum, The Dow Chemical Company (or any other Company as described above) shall pay the balance in such Deferral Account (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the end of the Deferral Period) in a lump sum in cash on the January 31 after the end of the Deferral Period, and/or as soon
          
Section 7.01
Time and Form of Payment
st
 
11
 
 
as administratively feasible in the year of the payment of the Performance Award for the Performance Award deferral. If a Participant has elected in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in installment payments, each installment payment shall equal the balance of such Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date, times a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of remaining installment payments. The first such installment shall be paid on the January 31 after the end of the Deferral Period.  Each subsequent installment shall be paid on or about the succeeding anniversary of such first payment or in monthly or quarterly intervals, if selected.  Each such installment shall be deemed to be made on a pro rata basis from each of the different deemed investments of the Deferral Account (if there is more than one such deemed investment).
st
For Participants who elect to commence distribution of benefits upon Retirement, the lump sum cash payment or the first installment shall be paid on the January 31 after Retirement, and/or as soon as administratively feasible in the year of the payment of the Performance Award for The Performance Award deferral.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1 after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
st
 
                         Participants may elect an alternative form of payout as available under Section 7.01 by written election filed with the Administrator; provided, however, that the Participant files the election in the prior tax year and at least six (6) months prior to the first day of the month in which payments are to commence.  Distribution change elections for payments commencing in January must be made no later than June 30 of the prior calendar year.
          
Section 7.02
Changing Form of Benefit.
Effective January 1, 2010, participants may no longer elect to change their benefits to quarterly installments.
If the Participant files the election in the year that the benefit payments are to commence or in the prior year but less than six (6) months prior to the date of benefit commencement, the Participant will have his or her Deferral Account reduced by ten percent (10%) at the Valuation Date immediately prior to commencement of payments, and, for future deferrals only, all Participation Agreements previously filed by such Participant shall be null and void after such election is filed (including without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods that have not yet been complete, and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to file any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such election is made.
 
                       Each Participant who elects to make deferrals of Eligible Compensation to the Plan will be credited with a Matching Contribution utilizing the same formula authorized under the Savings Plan for employer matching contributions.  For purposes of calculating the match under this Plan, The Dow Chemical Company will assume each Participant is contributing the maximum allowable amount to the Savings Plan and receiving a match thereon.  This assumed match from the Savings Plan will be offset from the Matching Contribution calculated under provisions of the Elective Deferral Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sum of the Matching Contribution under the Plan plus the assumed employer matching contributions under the Savings Plan may not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) in each Plan Year.  The amount of the Matching Contribution may be based on a formula that takes into account a Participants overall compensation and may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Matching Contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible within the first 60 days of the following plan year.  The Matching Contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the Base Salary deferrals of the Participant.  The Matching Contribution shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her Base Salary deferrals and will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date credited to the Participants account.
          
Section 7.03
Matching Contribution.
If a Participant is employed by a Company, other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all Matching Contributions credited to Participants of such Company shall be paid or transferred in full by such Company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such Matching Contribution is credited to a Participants Deferred Account The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
                       Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.11 hereof, if a Participant has elected to have the balance of his or her Deferral Account distributed upon Retirement or after a Specific Future Year, the account balance of the Participant (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the end of the Deferral Period) shall be distributed in installments or a lump sum in accordance with the Plan and as elected in the Participation Agreement. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1st after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
          
Section 7.04
Retirement.  
 
12
 
                       .  Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.11 hereof, if a Participant has elected to defer Eligible Compensation under the Plan until a stated future year, the account balance of the Participant (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such Deferral Period) shall be distributed in installments or a lump sum in accordance with the Plan and as elected in the Participation Agreement.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1 after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
          
Section 7.05
Distributions after Specific Future Year
st
                       If a Participant dies prior to Retirement and prior to receiving full payment at his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such event) to the Participants Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) according to the form elected by the Participant as a part of the Participation Agreement. If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participants Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.  In the event that installment payments are elected, The Dow Chemical Company shall continue to credit interest on the unpaid balance of the Deferral Account subject to Section 6.02(a) hereof, based on the Participants investment elections. Participants Beneficiary may request acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the death of the Participant. provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participants death.
          
Section 7.06
Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit.
st
                         If a Participant dies after Retirement and prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such event) to the Participants Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) according to the form elected by the Participant as a part of The Participation Agreement. If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participants Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence, and The DowChemical Company shall reimburse such Company for such payments.  In the event that installment payments are elected, The Dow Chemical Company shall continue to credit interest on the unpaid balance of the Deferral Account subject to Section 6.02(a) hereof, based on the Participants investment elections. Participants Beneficiary mayrequest acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the death of the Participant, provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participants death.
          
Section 7.07
Post-Retirement Survivor Benefit.
 
 
st
                       .  If a Participant suffers a Disability, the Participants Deferred Amount shall cease, and The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay the benefit described in section 7.01. Participant may request acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the determination of Disability of the Participant, provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participants Disability.
          
Section 7.08
Disability
st
                       .  In the event of Termination of Employment which takes place prior to eligibility for Retirement, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay the benefits described in section 7.01 in a single lump sum payment as soon as practicable after the Termination of Employment.
          
Section 7.09
Termination of Employment
                       .  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, if the Termination of Employment occurs as a direct result of a merger, joint venture or sale of a subsidiary, division, business or other unit of any Company, or as a result of transfer of the Participant to a non-participating subsidiary or joint venture, as determined by the Administrator, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion,
          
Section 7.10
Merger, Joint Venture or Sale of Business Exception
(i) elect to waive the lump sum distribution of benefits for an entire class of affected employees transferring to the joint venture. In cases where this election is made by the Administrator, the Participants Base Salary Deferrals shall cease and the Participants Deferral Account shall remain deferred, in accordance with the distribution elected in the Participation Agreement, until the Participants termination of employment from the joint venture, provided however, the Participant is employed by the joint venture until at least age 50; in cases where the Participant is not 50 years old at the time of termination of employment from the entity, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, it the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay to the Participant a lump sum termination benefit equal to the balance of the Deferral Account as of the Valuation Date.  If any Company terminates its ownership interest in the joint venture, the Participants
 
13
 
Deferral Account shall remain deferred, in accordance with the distribution elected in the Participation Agreement, until the Participants termination of employment from the remaining joint venture partners, provided however, the Participant is employed by the remaining joint venture partners until at least age 50; in cases where the Participant is not 50 years old at the time of termination of employment from the remaining joint venture partners, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay to the Participant a lump sum termination benefit equal to the balance of the Deferral Account as of the Valuation Date.
(ii) elect to waive the lump sum distribution of benefits for an entire class of affected employees of a sale.  In cases where this election is made by the Administrator, the Participants Base Salary Deferrals shall cease and the Participants Deferral Account shall remain in effect until such time as the benefits are distributed to Participants in accordance with the distribution elected in the Participation Agreement, provided however, the Participant is employed by the purchaser until at least age 50; in cases where the Participant is not 50 years old at the time of termination of employment from the purchaser, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay to the Participant a lump sum termination benefit equal to the balance of the Deferral Account as of the Valuation Date.
(iii) elect to permit the Performance Deferral for an entire class of affected employees transferring to the joint venture. In cases where this election is made by the Administrator, the award will be credited to the Participants Deferral Account and the Participants Deferral Account shall remain in effect until such time as benefits are distributed to Participants as provided under Section 7.10 (i).
(iv) elect to permit the Performance Deferral for an entire class of affected employees of a sale. In cases where this election is made by the Administrator, the award will be credited to the Participants Deferral Account and the Participants Deferral Account shall remain in effect until such time as the benefits are distributed to Participants as provided under Section 7.10 (ii).
Participants who retire or terminate after merger, joint venture or sale of a subsidiary, division, business or other unit of any Company, or as a result of transfer of the Participant to a non-participating subsidiary or joint venture assume the personal responsibility to notify The Dow Chemical Company of their status change. Failure to promptly notify The Dow Chemical Company may result in the loss of earnings beyond the status change date.
                         Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any Participation Agreement, a Participants on-going Deferred Amount shall cease and a Participant shall be entitled to early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, in accordance with this Section 7.12.  A distribution pursuant to this Section 7.12 may only be made to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need, and may not be made if such need is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participants assets to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of participation in the Plan.  An application for an early payment under this Section 7.12 shall be made to the Administrator in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The determination of whether and in what amount and form a distribution will be permitted pursuant to this Section 7.12 shall be made by the Administrator.
          
 
Section 7.11
Hardship Withdrawals.
 
                       .  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any Participation Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to elect to withdraw all or a portion of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in accordance with this Section 7.13 by filing with the Administrator such fonts, in accordance with such procedures, as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The amount of this withdrawal must be at least twenty five percent (25%) of the balance of the Deferral Account, or $10,000.00, whichever is less. As soon as practicable after receipt of such form by the Administrator, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay an amount equal to ninety (90) percent of the amount elected for withdrawal (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the date such election is filed) to the electing Participant in a lump sum in cash, and the Participant shall forfeit the remaining ten (10) percent of the amount elected for withdrawal.  For future deferrals only, all Participation Agreements previously filed by a Participant who elects to make a withdrawal under this Section 7.13 shall be null and void after such election is filed (including without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods That have not yet been completed), and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to file any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such election is made.
          
 
Section 7.12
Voluntary Early Withdrawal
 
14
 
                       .  An Eligible Employee may, when completing a Participation Agreement during the enrollment period, elect that, if a Change of Control occurs, the Participant (or after the Participants death the Participants Beneficiary) shall receive a lump sum payment of the balance of the Deferral Account within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control.  This election may be changed only during a 30-day period ending on November 30 of each calendar year and shall apply to the entire Deferral Account both before and after Retirement.  The Deferral Account balance shall be determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the month in which Change of Control occurs.  All Participation Agreements previously filed by a Participant who, receives a distribution under this Section 7.14 shall be null and void (including without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods that have not yet been completed), and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to tile any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such distribution is made.
          
Section 7.13
Change of Control
 
                         Any Company may at any time contribute a discretionary Company contribution.  The amount of the discretionary contribution may vary from payroll period to payroll period throughout the Plan Year, may be based on a formula which takes into account a Participants overall compensation, and otherwise may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Discretionary Contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the payroll period.  The discretionary contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant. The discretionary contribution shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her deferrals. The vesting schedule shall be at the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator.   If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer to The Dow Chemical Company any amounts designated as discretionary Company contributions for all such Participants as of the date such discretionary Company contributions are credited to a Participants Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
          
Section 7.14
Discretionary Company Contributions.
                         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, any Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any amounts required to be so withheld by any applicable law or regulation.
          
Section 7.15
Withholding of Taxes.
                         Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.  A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall establish from time to time.
          
Section 8.01
Beneficiary Designation.
                       .  If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participants Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:
          
Section 8.02
No Beneficiary Designation
 
15
 
                         The Board may at any time amend this Plan in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.
          
Section 9.01
Amendment.
 
 
                       .  The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Participation Agreements.  The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time for any reason, including without limitation if, in its judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of The Dow Chemical Company, and upon any such termination, The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to each Participant (or shall transfer to a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company for payment if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company) the benefits such Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan as monthly installments over a three (3) year period commencing within ninety (90) days (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the termination date).  Any Company may cease participation in the Plan for any reason by notifying The Dow Chemical Company in writing at least 30 days prior to such Companys cessation of participation. Payments to Participants of any such Company will commence in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
          
Section 9.02
Companys Right to Terminate
                                 .  This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. All payments pursuant to the Plan shall first be made from the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company, as the entity primarily liable for such payments, and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment. As described above, if a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay such Participants Deferral Account balance to such Participant according to the terms of the Plan, and The DQW Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for the amount of the payment.  In the event The Dow Chemical Company is insolvent or is otherwise unable to make any required payment or reimbursement to a Participant or a Company, the Company (other than The Dow Chemical Company) that employed such Participant shall be secondarily liable for such payments from the general assets of such Company.  No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of The Dow Chemical Company or any other Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, The Dow Chemical Company may (but shall not be obligated to) create one or more grantor trusts, the assets of which are subject to the claims of The Dow Chemical Companys creditors, to assist it in accumulating funds to pay its obligations.
          
Section 10.01
Unfunded Plan
                                   Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all tights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participants or any other persons bankruptcy or insolvency.
          
Section 10.02
Nonassignability.
                                   The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
          
Section 10.03
Validity and Severability.
                                   The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.
          
Section 10.04
Governing Law.
 
16
 
                                 .  This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or any Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of such Company or change the status of the Participants employment or the policies of such Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.
          
Section 10.05
Employment Status
                                 .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent any Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Performance Awards are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.
          
Section 10.06
Underlying Incentive Plans and Programs
                                   Payments from the Executive Severance Supplement equal to six months Base Salary will be credited to the Participants Deferral Account subject to the same earnings methods and distribution elections most recently elected by the Participant governing his or her Base Salary deferrals.  The Executive Severance Supplement for individuals who do not have an established Deferral Account will be deemed to be invested using the U.S. Treasury Note Hypothetical Investment Benchmark and a ten year payout distribution election.
          
Section 10.07
Severance.
 
 
                                   The tights and obligations of The Dow Chemical Company shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of The Dow Chemical Company.
          
Section 10.08
Successors of the Company.
                                 .  The waiver by The Dow Chemical Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.
          
Section 10.09
Waiver of Breach
                                   Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to The Dow Chemical Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of The Dow Chemical Company, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the dale shown on the postmark.
          
Section 10.10
Notice.
 
17
 
APPENDIX A: Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
Hypothetical funds that align with the funds offered in the Savings Plan are also offered in this plan.
 
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
The Angus Cash Fund is grandfathered to existing participants.  No new contributions are allowed.
 
18
 

 
 
1.1.           This is the Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Savings Plan (the Plan), adopted by the Company as amended and restated effective January 1, 2003. Minor amendments to the Plan were made via amendment and restatement effective January 1, 2010 due to a change in providers for third party plan administration.
2.1.           The purpose of the Plan is to provide additional retirement savings benefits beyond the otherwise determined savings benefits provided by the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan (the Savings Plan) for a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company.
In addition, to the extent not provided for in the preceding paragraph, the Plan also provides additional savings benefits for eligible employees of the Company whose otherwise determined savings benefits from the Savings Plan are limited by Section 415 or Section 40l(a)( l7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The terms used herein shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
            means a Participants account under the Plan including the following sub- accounts:
3.1
Account
            shall mean that portion of a Participants Account maintained to record all amounts nationally invested in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund in the form of Stock Units, pursuant to Section 6.1 and Section 6.2.
3.1.1.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
            shall mean that portion of a Participants Account maintained to record all amounts nationally invested in the Savings Fund(s), pursuant to Section 6.1.
3.1.2.
Tax-Deferred Account
           means the Vice President of Human Resources of The Dow Chemical Company. The Company has designated the Administrative Committee to be the named fiduciary the respect to administrative matters of the Plan. The duties of the Administrative Committee are outlined in Article XIII of the Plan.
3.2.
Administrative Committee
            means Rohm and Haas Company, including The Dow Chemical Company and:
3.3.
Affiliated Company
           each entity in a controlled group of corporations, trades or businesses as determined under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code;
3.3.1.
           each entity in an affiliated service group as determined under Section 414(m) of the Code; or
3.3.2.
           any other organization required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to regulations under Section 414(o) of the Code.
3.3.3.
 
19
 
            shall include short term disability or sick pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, jury duty pay, bereavement pay, reductions under a Company-sponsored Code section 401(k) or Code section 125 plan, personal time pay, military pay, expatriate split salary pay, and supplemental workers compensation payments, but shall exclude for any workers compensation payments, long-term disability payments and unused vacation payments.
3.4.
Base Pay
           means the person, trust or institution designated to receive benefits in accordance with Article X.The Beneficiary of a Participant who has not effectively designated a beneficiary shall be the Participants estate.
3.5.
Beneficiary
 
            means the Board of Directors of the Rohm and Haas Company.
3.6.
Board of Directors
           includes the annual incentive awards granted in March of each Plan Year (the Annual Bonus), and amounts granted under certain sales incentive programs, as well as any extra wages earned while holding a temporary job.  The tan Bonus excludes all other bonuses and special awards.
3.7.
Bonus
            means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
3.8.
Code
            means Rohm and Haas Company and such of its Affiliated Companies as may be designated from time to time by its Board of Directors and as may adopt the Plan.
3.9.
Company
            means, for the purpose of applying the limits of Code section 401(a)(17) and Code section 415and for all other purposes unless specified otherwise; Base Pay, Bonus, any Stock Award(s), overtime pay, Shift Payments and commissions.
3.10.
Compensation
,
           means January 1, 1997, the original effective date of the Plan. The effective date of this amendment and restatement is January 1, 2010
3.11.
Effective Date
            means any salaried employee of the Company who is employed on a regular fill-time basis.
3.12.
Employee
            means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any regulations issued pursuant thereto.
3.13.
ERISA
            means, on any given date, the average of the high and low prices of Rohm and Haas Company common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite transaction quotations for the immediately preceding trading day.
3.14.
Fair Market Value
            shall mean all earnings on investments, as well as all realized and unrealized increases and decreases in the value of the securities held.
3.15.
Income
            shall mean the adviser or advisers appointed from time to time by the Investment Committee to supervise and manage the investment and reinvestment of the Trust Fund. Any such adviser must be (i) registered as such under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; or (ii) a bank (as defined in such Act); and (iii) must acknowledge in writing that it is a fiduciary with respect to the Plan.
3.16.
Investment Adviser
            means the Rohm and Haas Benefits Investment Committee.  The duties of the Investment Committee are defined in Article XIII.  The Company has designated this Committee to be the named fiduciary of the Plan for financial matters as outlined in the Plan.
3.17.
Investment Committee
            shall mean any portion of the benefits payable in cash to a Plan Participant under the LTIP during a Plan Year.
3.18.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Payments
            means any Employee eligible to receive benefits under Article IV.
3.19.
Participant
            means the Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
3.20.
Plan
            means the calendar year.
3.21.
Plan Year
 
20
 
            means a Participants termination of employment at either his normal or early retirement date.  A Participants normal retirement date under the Plan is the last day of the month in which the Participants 65th birthday occurs.  A Participants early retirement date under the Plan may be the last day of any month during the 10-year period immediately preceding the Participants normal retirement date.
3.22.
Retirement
            shall mean the investment fund which consists of Stock Units contributed by Participants and the Company pursuant to Article VI. Effective April 1, 2009 the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund was liquidated due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company by The Dow Chemical Company.  These values were liquidated and placed in the Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund.
3.23.
Rohm and Haas Stock Fund
            shall mean the investment funds offered under the Savings Plan, and designated by the Company for tracking the Trust Funds investment performance.  A list of the investment funds is attached as Appendix A to the Plan.
3.24.
Savings Funds
The investment performance of the Savings Funds shall be used to measure the investment performance of the Trust Fund.  The actual investment performance of the Trust Fund may be less than or greater than that of the Savings Funds. The Trustee is not obligated to actually invest the Participant contributions credited to the Trust Fund in the Savings Funds. Participants Accounts shall, therefore, to the extent possible, track the investment performance of the Savings Funds.
            means the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
3.25.
Savings Plan
            shall include the shift differential payments made to individuals (including supervisors of hourly employees) who work a rotating shift or any shift other than a day shift.
3.26.
Shift Payments
            shall mean any Rohm and Haas Company canon stock awarded to the Participant, determined without regard to any restriction.
3.27.
Stock Awards
            means a book-entry unit representing the right to acquire one share of Rohm and Haas Company common stock.  The number of Stock Units shall be adjusted to reflect stock dividends, stock splits, combinations of shares, and any other change in the corporate capital structure of Rohm and Haas Company including reorganization, recapitalization, merger and consolidation.  The value of a Stock Unit at any time shall equal the current FMV of a share of Company common stock.
3.28.
Stock Unit
            means the aggregate of all Participant contributions credited to the grantor trust established by the Company pursuant to section 671 of the Code.
3.29.
Trust Fund
            means the 4 day of the month or the prior business day each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
3.30.
Valuation Date
th
           Each Employee of the Company who is classified as an exempt level 14 or above is eligible to become a Participant in the Plan. Participation shall be effective as soon as administratively practicable following the Participants enrollment in the Plan, as described in Section 5.1 below.
4.1.
 
21
 
           
5.1.
Enrollment
           An eligible Employee, as described in section 4.1 above, may become a Participant in the Plan by submitting a written, telephonic or electronic contribution agreement in accordance with Section 5.3 and any other procedures prescribed by the Administrative Committee.
5.1.1.
           A Participant may designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, independent of any beneficiary designation under the Savings Plan, and may change such designation at any time by written notice to the Company.
5.1.2.
           For the purpose of determining the period of a Participants participation, the effective date of such participation shall be as soon as administratively feasible following the date on which the Participants contribution agreement is received.  The effective date for resuming contributions after a suspension shall be the first day of the month following the end of the suspension period.
5.2.
Effective Date
.  
           .  Upon first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or upon rehire, an eligible Employee wishing to participate in the Plan must submit a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement to the Administrative Committee within 45 days of receiving enrollment materials. Contribution agreements with respect to any subsequent Plan Year may only be submitted by a Participant during the enrollment period designated by the Administrative Committee, but in no event later than December 15 of the prior Plan Year.
5.3.
Contribution Agreement
th
           For Plan Years beginning before January 1, 2002, a Participant may authorize the Company to make contributions to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account on behalf of the Participant; through a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement in whole percentage points of 1% to 18% of the Participants Compensation, including the Annual Bonus, in excess of the Code section 401(a)(17) limit.
5.3.1.
Elective Deferrals
 
of Compensation
.
 
 
For Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2002, a Participant may authorize the Company to make contributions to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account on behalf of the Participant, through a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement, in whole percentage points of 1% to 50% of the Participants Compensation (excluding the Annual Bonus) without regard to the Code section 401 (a)(17) limit.
           .  For Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2002, a Participant may make a separate election in a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement with respect to the Participants Annual Bonus, authorizing the Company to contribute, on the Participants behalf, in whole percentage points of 1% to 100% of the Participants Annual Bonus to be deferred into the Participants Tax-Deferred Account Contributions under this subsection 5.3.2 shall be credited to the Participants Account in the Plan Year in which the portion of the Annual Bonus subject to this election would otherwise have been payable to such Participant.
5.3.2.
Separate Election for Annul Bonus
           .  Subject to the limitations described in subsection 5.3.3.4 below, a Participant may make an irrevocable election in a written, telephonic or electronic contribution agreement with respect to any Stock Award which is subject to restrictions that are due to lapse within the Plan Year to which the election applies (Shares), authorizing the Company to convert such Shares, on the Participants behalf, as follows:
5.3.3.
Separate Election for Certain Stock Awards
                      Into units of the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund, in whole percentage points of l% to 100%; or
5.3.3.1.
                      Into shares of the Savings Fund(s) elected by the Participant under the Plan, in whole percentage points of 1% to 100%; or
5.3.3.2.
                       Into any combination units of the Rohm and Haas
5.3.3.3.
Stock Fund, and shares of the Savings Fund(s) elected by the Participant under the Plan.
                      Units of the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund acquired through the conversion of restricted stock may not transferred or diversified into any other Savings Fund, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.4 below.
5.3.3.4.
 
22
 
           .  A Participant may make a separate election in a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement with respect to the cash portion of any LTIP Payment, authorizing the Company to contribute, on the Participants behalf, 1% to 100% (in whole percentage points) of the portion of the LTIP Payment to be deferred into the Participants Tax-Deferred Account Amounts elected under this subsection 5.3.4 may not be contributed to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account.
5.3.4.
Separate Election for LTEP Awards
           .  Unless changed or suspended as described in Sections 5.4 or 5.5 below, a Participants election(s) pursuant to this Section 5.3 shall remain in full force and effect and shall govern the contributions to his/her Account.
5.3.5.
Irrevocable Election
           .  A Participant may change or revoke his or her written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement, as described in section 5.3 above, only during the annual enrollment period designated by the Company.
5.4.
Change In Contribution Agreement
           .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if after other required and authorized salary reductions have been made in a payroll period, there is insufficient money available in a Participants pay to permit the Participants contribution, the contribution agreement shall automatically be suspended for that payroll period.
5.5.
Suspension of Contributions
           .
6.1.
Participant Contributions
           .  For each payroll period, the Company, on behalf of any Participant who makes an election to contribute amounts to his or her Tax-Deferred Account pursuant to Section 5.3. above, shall credit such Participants Tax-Deferred Account with a notional amount equal to such deferral contribution(s).  Such notional contributions shall be credited to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account on a monthly basis; except that in the case where a Participants contribution to his or her Tax-Deferred Account is attributable to an LTIP Payment or Stock Award, as described in Sections 5.3.3. and 5.3.4 above, then such contributions shall be credited to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the LTIP Payment would, but for the Participants election, have been paid to the Participant; or, in the case of a Stock Award, as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which restrictions on the stock subject to the election lapse.
6.1.1.
Tax-Deferred Account
           .  The Company, on behalf of any Participant who makes an election pursuant to Section 5.3 above regarding the conversion and contribution of Shares to their Rohm and Haas Stock Account, shall credit such Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account with a notional amount equal to such contribution(s) in the form of Stock Units.  Such notional contributions shall be allocated to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the restrictions on the stock subject to the election lapse. Effective April 1, 2009 the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund was liquidated due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company by The Dow Chemical Company.  These values were liquidated and placed in the Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund.
6.1.2.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
           .  The Company shall match each Participants contributions to the Plan pursuant to Section 6.1, except that for the purpose of this Section 6.2, contributions attributable to LTIP payments and Stock Awards shall be excluded. Such matching contributions shall be made to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account in Rohm and Haas Stock Units.  The number of Rohm and Haas Stock Units to be contributed shall be determined as follows:
6.2.
Company Matching Contributions
           .  Except as otherwise provided in Section  6.2.2 below; the number of Rohm and Haas Stock units to be contributed by the Company shall be 60% of the amount determined by dividing the lesser of (i) the Participants contributions for the year, or (ii) 6% of the Participants Compensation, by the Fair Market Value of Rohm and Haas common stock on the date the contribution is allocated.
6.2.1.
General Rule
 
23
 
           .  Investment elections under this Article VII are notional only, to be used for the sole purpose of calculating the amount of a Participants benefit under the Plan at any time. Actual investments, if any, by the Company to defray the costs of this Plan will be governed by Section 8.3.
7.1.
General
           .  Pursuant to Section 6.1 above, and in accordance with Article VIII below, the contributions allocated to a Participants Tax-Deferred Account will be invested on a notional basis in the Savings Fund(s) elected by such Participant in the manner prescribed by the qualified Savings Plan, and contributions allocated to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account will be invested on a notional basis in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.  No contributions under this Plan maybe allocated to the Rohm and Haas ESOP Fund, and no contributions may be made to the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund, (also called the stock unit fund), except as permitted in subsection 5.3.3. above.  Any change in a Participants investment elections, or a transfer or diversification of funds under this Plan, will have no effect on the Participants investment elections in the qualified Savings Plan, or result in a transfer or diversification of funds under the qualified Savings Plan; and vice-versa with respect to changes, transfers, or diversification under the Savings Plan.
7.2.
Participant Contributions
           .  Pursuant to Section 6.2 above, and in accordance with Article VIII below, all Company matching contributions allocated to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account shall be invested on a notional basis in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.
7.3.
Company Contributions
             Investments of both Participant and Company contributions credited to the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund on a notional basis may not be subsequently reallocated to other Savings Funds, except as provided below:
7.4.
Diversification of Investments in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund
.
           Subject to the restrictions set forth in subsection 7.4.2 below, a Participant may diversify his/her notional investments in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund beginning on the date on which a Participant attains age 55 and has completed five (5) years of Vesting Service with the Company (as defined in the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan) by reallocating or transferring any portion of his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account into any other available Savings Fund(s).
7.4.1.
           Any Participant designated as a Section l6b Insider by the Company shall not be eligible to diversify any portion of his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account as described in subsection 7.4.1 above.  In addition, any Participant who reallocates any portion of his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account into any other Savings Fund(s) pursuant to subsection 7.4.1 above, may not subsequently reallocate investments into the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.
7.4.2.
           .  Subject to any limitations which may exist with respect to transfers as provided in the prospectus for a particular Savings Fund, a Participant may elect to transfer any portion of his or her existing Account balance, except for amounts credited to the Rohm and Haas Stock Account among the available Savings Funds at any time.  A Participant may not transfer any portion of his or her existing Account balance into the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.
7.5.
Investment Reallocation
Amounts credited to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account are subject to the diversification rules described in Section 7.4 above.
           The Administrative Committee shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, for each Participant a Rohm and Haas Stock Account and a Tax-Deferred Account. Notional amounts equal to the value of a Participants before-tax contributions shall be credited to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account or Rohm and Haas Stock Account by the Company on the Participants behalf as appropriate. Notional amounts equal to the value of the Companys matching contributions shall be credited to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account.
8.1.
           The notional amount credited to a Participants Account will be reduced by any amounts withdrawn.
8.2.
 
24
 
           Notwithstanding Article VII, the Administrative Committee shall direct the Trustee to establish a Trust Fund for the Plan.  The Investment Committee shall direct the investment of such Trust Fund.  The actual investment of the Trust Fund need not correspond to actual Participant elections under Section 7.1. As of each Valuation Date, the Trustee will determine the value of each Savings Fund, including Income thereon.  The Trustee shall also value the Trust Fund as of each Valuation Date, and report to the Company the difference between the Trust Funds actual value and the Savings Funds value, as derived from the investment elections by Participants.
8.3.
           The Investment Committee shall direct the finding of the Trust Fund form time to time as it deems appropriate and in the best interests of Participants and the Company.
8.4.
           A Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in all amounts credited to his Account.
9.1.
           A Participant with funds transferred from an account under the Morton International, Inc. Supplemental Employee Savings and Investment Plan (a SESIP Account) shall become 100% vested in the amount of such funds as of the date of transfer.
9.2.
                         Subject to the following provisions of this Article X, a Participants Account shall generally be paid to the Participant or the Participants Beneficiary in the event of one of the following:
10.1.
Timing of Distribution
.  
.  A Participant who has separated from service for any reason other than Retirement or death shall receive a distribution of his or her Account in a lump awn as soon as administratively feasible following the Participants separation from service.
10.1.1.
Separation From Service
         If the Participant dies while employed, his or her Account shall be distributed to his or her Beneficiary(ies) as soon as administratively feasible following the Participants death.  All decisions made by the Administrative Committee in good faith and based upon proof of affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Committee regarding questions of fact in the determination of the identity of such Beneficiary(ies) shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties, and payment made in accordance therewith shall satisfy all liability hereunder.
10.1.2.
Participants Death
.  
10.1.3.
Payment Following Retirement
.  The normal form of benefit shall be installment payments over a term of years equal to (1) in the case of an unmarried Participant, the Participants life expectancy or (2) in the case of a married Participant, the joint life expectancies of the Participant and the Participants spouse.  The life expectancies to be used will be determined from tables issued by the Internal Revenue Service and will not be subject to recalculation after payments begin.  The amount of the payment to be made each year (at intervals determined by the Administrative Committee) will be determined by multiplying the balance of the Participants Account at the end of the previous year by a fraction, the numerator of which will be one (1) and the denominator of which will be the original term of years reduced by the number of years during which payments have already been made.
10.1.3.1.
Normal Form
..  In lieu of the normal form of benefit described in Section 10.1.3.1,
10.1.3.2
Optional Forms
(a)           an unmarried Participant may elect to receive his or her distribution in either installment payments over a term of years selected by the Participant but not to exceed the Participants life expectancy as determined under Section 10.1.3.1;
 
25
 
(b)           a married Participant may elect to receive his or her distribution in installment payments over a term of years selected by the Participant but not to exceed the joint life expectancies of the Participant and spouse as determined under Section 10.1.3.1; or
(c)           any Participant may elect to receive a distribution of his or her entire Account balance in a cash lump sum to paid at1east 90 days but not more than 120 days after the Administrative Committee has received the Participants election in writing.  Any distribution under this Section 10.1.3.2(c) shall be subject to the following rules: (1) 100% of the value of the Participants Account shall be paid to the Participant provided he or she makes such election no later than 90 days after his or her last day of active employment and (2) 90% of the value of the Participants Account shall be paid to the Participant if he or she makes such election more than 90 days after his last day of active employment and the remaining 10% of such Participants Account shall be irrevocably forfeited.
                      .  A Participant who has retired and begun receiving benefits in installment payments may, by filing a mitten, telephonic, or electronic election with the Administrative Committee, elect to receive 90% of the value of the Participants Account determined and paid 12 months after the date of the election, in full satisfaction of all further benefit entitlements under this Plan.  Scheduled installments shall continue until the dale of the lump sum payment.
10.1.4.
Change from Installment Payments to Lump Sum
10.2.           
Form of Distribution.
                      .  Amounts from a Participants Tax- Deferred Account shall be distributed in cash.
10.2.1.
Tax-Deferred Account
                      .  Stock Units notionally credited to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account shall be distributed in Company common stock shares.  The amount of such shares to be distributed shall equal the number of whole Stock Units, plus a cash payment equal to the Pair Market Value on the date of distribution of any fractional Stock Units, which are credited to the Participants Account as of the date of distribution.
10.2.2.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
           A Participant may withdrawal all or a portion of his Account in a lump sum either without penalty upon giving 12 months notice to the Administrative Committee of such withdrawal, or, if less than 12 months notice is provided, by agreeing to forfeit 10% of the balance of the Account.
11.1.
           If a Participants employment is terminated, and he or she is subsequently reemployed as an Employee eligible to participate in the Plan under Article IV, such eligible Employee may again participate in the Plan in accordance with Article V.
12.1.
           The Administrative Committee will be responsible the administration of the Plan and is designated as the Plans agent to receive service of process.  All matters relating to the administration of the Plan, including the duties imposed upon the Plan administrator by law, except those duties relating to the control or management of Plan assets, shall be the responsibility of the Administrative Committee.  The Investment Committee will have the authority and responsibility to control and manage the assets of the Plan. Members of both the Administrative Committee and the Investment Committee shall be appointed and roved by the Chief Executive Officer, or his or herdesignee.
13.1.
 
 
26
 
           The Administrative Committee shall have the full responsibility to represent the Company and the Participants in all things it may deem necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the decision of the Administrative Committee upon any question of fact interpretation, definition or procedure relating to the administration of the Plan shall be conclusive.  The responsibilities of the Administrative Committee shall include the following:
13.2.
                      Verifying all procedures by which payments to Participants and their Beneficiaries are authorized;
13.2.1.
                      Deciding all questions relating to the eligibility of Employees to become Participants in the Plan;
13.2.2.
                      Interpreting the provisions of the Plan in all particulars;
13.2.3.
Establishing and publishing rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan;
13.2.4.
                      Preparing an individual record for each Participant in the Plan, which shall be available for examination by such Participant, the Investment Committee and its members, or other authorized persons; and
13.2.5.
                      Reviewing and answering any denied claim for benefits that has been appealed to the Administrative Committee under the provisions of Section 15.6.
13.2.6.
           The following general provision shall govern the actions of either the Administrative or Investment Committee:
13.3.
                      The Committee shall choose a chairman from its members and shall appoint a secretary who shall keep minutes of the Committees proceedings and shall be responsible for preparing such reports as may be advisable for the administration of the Plan.  The Committee may employ and compensate such advisory, clerical, and other employees as it may deem reasonable and necessary to the performance of its duties.
13.3.1.
                      The action of the Committee shall be determined by a majority vote of all its members, except that no member of the Committee may vote on any question relating specifically to himself or herself.
13.3.2.
                      The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their services as such. All expenses of the Committee shall be paid by the Company.
13.3.3.
                      The chairman or the secretary of the Committee may execute any written direction on behalf of the Committee.
13.3.4.
                      The Committee may, at its discretion, allocate among its members or to other persons those functions and responsibilities which it deems advisable for the efficient and effective operation and management of the Plan.
13.3.5.
                      Except as expressly provided, neither the Committee nor any member thereof shall be in anyway subject to any suit or litigation or to any legal liability for any cause or reason or thing whatsoever in connection with the administration or financial performance of the Plan.
13.3.6.
           The Company hopes and expects to continue the Plan indefinitely, but necessarily reserves the right at any time to reduce, suspend or discontinue payments to be made by it as provided hereunder.  The Company reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time.
14.1.
 
27
 
           The right of any Participant, or Beneficiary to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company.  Any trust, and any other fund, account, contract or arrangement that the Company chooses to establish for the future payment of benefits under this Plan to a Participant or Beneficiary shall remain part of the Companys general assets and no person claiming payments under the Plan shall have any right, title or interest in or to any such trust, fund, account, contract or arrangement.
15.1.
           Where appropriate, and wherever the singular is used, it shall be interpreted as including the plural.
15.2.
           To the extent permitted by law, payments to and benefits under the Plan shall not be assignable, since they are primarily for the support and maintenance of the Participant after Retirement.  To extent permitted bylaw, such payments and benefits shall not be subject to attachment by creditors of; or through legal processes against, any Participant or Beneficiary.
15.3.
           Participation in the Plan shall not give any Employee the right to be retained in the service of the Company, nor any right or claim to annuity income unless such tight has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan.
15.4.
           If any person entitled to receive any benefits hereunder is a minor, or is deemed by the Administrative Committee or is adjudged to be legally incapable of giving a valid receipt and discharge for such benefits, they will be paid to the duly appointed guardian, custodian or committee of such minor or incompetent, or they maybe paid to such persons who the Administrative Committee believes are caring for or supporting such minor or incompetent.
15.5.
           Any Participant or Beneficiary who claims to be entitled to the payment of a benefit under the Plan, should bring the matter to the attention of the Company, normally through a local personnel department Ifs specific claim as to the amount of any benefit, the method of payment or any other matter under the Plan is denied, the claimant will be provided with a written notice, normally within 90 days of the date the claim was filed. The notice will include:
15.6.
                      the specific reason or reasons for the denial;
15.6.1.
                      the specific reference or references to the Plan provisions on which the denial is based,
15.6.2.
                      a notice that the claimant or the claimants duly authorized representative, any appeal the denial to the Administrative Committee within 60 days; and,
15.6.3.
  a description of any additional information or material necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of the need for such material or information.
15.6.4.
In the event of an appeal, the claimant or the claimants representative, may submit a written application for review of the denial, may examine documents relating to this Plan or the claim, and may submit written issues, comments, and documents. Such appeal will be promptly considered by the Administrative Committee.
           Except insofar as the law of Pennsylvania has been superseded by Federal law, Pennsylvania law shall govern the construction, validity and administration of this Plan.
15.7.
 
28
 
The funds offered in the Dow Elective Deferral Plan (post 2005) are also offered in this plan.
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
29
 

 
 
1.1           This is the Rohm and Haas Company 2005 Non-Qualified Savings Plan (the Plan), which was adopted by the Company effective January 1, 2005.  This Plan is intended to comply with the applicable provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) and is to be construed in accordance with AJCA and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.  Without affecting the validity of any other provision of the Plan, to the extent that any Plan provision does not meet the requirements of ACJA and the regulations issued thereunder, it shall be void ab initio and have no effect.
The Plan constitutes an amendment and restatement, effective January 1, 2010, of the 2005 Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 (the 2003 NQSP), and January 1, 2010 and shall apply only to deferrals of compensation on or after January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009.  Amounts considered deferred (under AJCA and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder) prior to January 1, 2005 shall continue to be subject to the terms of the 2003 NQSP. The Plan was amended and restated effective January 1, 2010 due to a change in providers for third party plan administration.  Changes were made to align with investment options and distribution limitations offered by the vendor.  Effective April 1, 2009 the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund was liquidated due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company by The Dow Chemical Company.  These values were liquidated and placed in the Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund.
2.1           The purpose of the Plan is to provide additional retirement savings benefits beyond the otherwise determined savings benefits provided by the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan (the Savings Plan) for a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Rohm and Haas Company.
In addition, to the extent not provided for in the preceding paragraph, the Plan also provides additional savings benefits for eligible employees of the Company whose otherwise determined savings benefits from the Savings Plan are limited by section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The text used herein shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
3.1            means a Participants account under the Plan including the following sub-accounts:
Account
3.1.1  shall mean that portion of a Participants Account maintained to record all amounts notionally invested in the Robin and Haas Stock Fund in the form of Stock Units, pursuant to Section 6.1 and Section 6.2.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
3.1.2  shall mean that portion of a Participants Account maintained to record all amounts notionally invested in Savings Fund(s), pursuant to Section 6.1.
Tax-Deferred Account
3.2            means the Vice President of Human Resources of The Dow Chemical Company. The Company has designated the Administrative Committee to be the named fiduciary with respect to administrative matters of the Plan.  The duties of the Administrative Committee are outlined in Article XII of the Plan.
Administrative Committee
3.3            means Rohm and Haas Company and any other entity required to be aggregated with the Rohm and Haas Company pursuant to regulations and other guidance issued under section 409A of the Code, including The Dow Chemical Company.
Affiliated Company
 
30
 
3.4            shall include short term disability or sick pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, jury duty pay, bereavement pay, salary reductions under a Company-sponsored Code section 401(k) or Code section 125 plan, personal time pay, military pay, expatriate split salary pay, and supplemental workers compensation payments, but shall exclude any workers compensation payments, long-term disability payments and unused vacation payments.
Base Pay
3.5            means the person, trust or institution designated to receive benefits in accordance with Article X.  The Beneficiary of a Participant who has not effectively designated a beneficiary shall be the Participants estate.
Beneficiary
3.6            means the Board of Directors of the Rohm and Haas Company.
Board of Directors
3.7            includes the annual incentive awards granted in March of each Plan Year (the Annual Bonus), and amounts granted under certain sales incentive programs, as well as any extra wagesearned while holding a temporary job.  The term Bonus excludes all other bonuses and special awards.
Bonus
3.8            means one of the events described in Sections 3.8.1, 3.8.2 or 3.8.3 below.  Whether a Change in Control has occurred shall be objectively determinable and not subject to the discretion of the Plan Administrator, the Board of Directors or any other person.
Change in Control
3.8.1           Change in Ownership of the Company.  The acquisition by any person, entity or group of stock of the Company that, together with the stock already held by such person, entity or group, constitutes more than 50%of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company; provided that if any one person, entity or group is considered to own more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same person, entity or group shall not be considered to cause a change in ownership of the Company under this Section 3.8.1, or a change in effective control of the Company under Section 3.8.2 below.  An increase in the percentage of stock owned by any person, entity or group, as a result of a transaction in which the Company acquires its stock in exchange for property shall be treated as an acquisition of stock for purposes of this Section 3.8.1.  This Section 3.8.1 shall only apply when there is a transfer of Company stock (or issuance of Company stock) and stock of the Company remains outstanding after the transaction.
 
3.8.2           Change in Effective Control of the Company. During any 12-month period, (i) the acquisition by any person, entity or group of stock of the Company that constitutes 35%or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company, or (ii) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors is replaced by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors as constituted prior to the date of such appointment or election; provided that if any person, entity or group is considered to effectively control the Company within the meaning of this Section 3.8.2, the acquisition of additional control of the Company shall not be considered to cause a change in effective control of the Company under this Section 3.8.2, or a change in ownership of the Company under Section 3.8.1.
 
3.8.3           Change in Ownership of a Substantial Portion of the Companys Assets. During any 12-month period, the acquisition by any person, entity or group of assets of the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition.  For purposes of this Section 3.8.3, gross fair market value means the value of the Companys total assets or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any associated liabilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not occur under this Section 3.8.3 where there is a transfer of assets to an entity that is controlled by the stockholders of the Company immediately after the transfer, including:
(a)           a stockholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;
(b)           an entity, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;
(c)           a person, entity or group that owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of all of the outstanding stock of the Company; or
(d)           an entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person, entity or group described in subparagraph (c).
3.8.4           For purposes of this Section 3.8, the following rules shall apply:
 
31
 
(a)           Persons or entities shall not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase or own stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering.  However, persons or entities shall be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company.  If a person or entity owns stock of the Company and stock of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company, such stockholder shall be considered to be acting as a group only with other stockholders of the Company prior to the transaction and not with respect to the stockholders ownership interest in the other corporation.
(b)           Stock ownership shall be determined in accordance with section 318(a) of the Code. Stock underlying a vested option shall be considered to be owned by the individual who holds the vested option (and stock underlying an unvested option shall not be considered to be owned by the individual who holds the unvested option).  For purposes of the preceding sentence, however, if a vested option is exercisable for stock that is not substantially vested (as defined in Treas. Reg. sections 1.83-3(b) and (j), the stock underlying the option shall not be treated as owned by the individual who holds the option.
3.8.5           Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not include any acquisition of Company common stock by the direct lineal descendents of Otto Haas and Phoebe Haas, the spouses of such descendents and any trusts and foundations established by any of them.
3.9            means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
3.10            means Rohm and Haas Company and such of its Affiliated Companies as may be designated from time to time by its Board of Directors and as may adopt the Plan.
Company
3.11            means, for the purpose of applying the limits of Code section 401(a)(17) and Code section 415, and for all other purposes unless specified otherwise, Base Pay, Bonus, LTPSP Payments, any Stock Award(s), overtime pay, Shift Payments and commissions.
Compensation
3.12            or  means a Participant is totally and permanently incapacitated and as a result is entitled to receive and is receiving disability benefits under the Social Security Act.
Disabled
Disability
3.13            means January 1, 2010.
Effective Date
3.14            means any salaried employee of the Company who is employed on a regular full-time basis.
Employee
3.15            means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any regulations issued pursuant thereto.
ERISA
3.16            means, on any given date, the average of the high and low prices of Rohm and Haas Company common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite transaction quotations for the current day (or, if the current day is not a trading day, the immediately preceding trading day).
Fair Market Value
3.17            means any Employee who owns (or is considered as owning within the meaning of section 318 of the Code) more than 5%of the outstanding stock of the Company or stock possessing more than 5%of the total combined voting power of all stock of the Company.  For purposes of this Section, section 318(a)(2)(C) of the Code shall be applied by substituting 5% for 50% each time it appears therein.
Five-Percent Owner
 
 
3.18            shall mean all earnings on investments, as well as all realized and unrealized increases and decreases in the value of the securities held.
Income
3.19            shall mean the adviser or advisers appointed from time to time by the Investment Committee to supervise and manage the investment and reinvestment of the Trust Fund.  Any such adviser must be (i) registered as such under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; or (ii) a bank (as defined in such Act); and (iii) must acknowledge in writing that it is a fiduciary with respect to the Plan.
Investment Adviser
 
 
32
 
 
3.20            means the Rohm and Haas Benefits Investment Committee.  The duties of the Investment Committee are defined in Article XIII.  The Company has designated this Committee to be the named fiduciary of the Plan for financial matters as outlined in the Plan.
Investment Committee
 
3.21            shall mean any portion of the benefits payable in cash to a Plan Participant under a long term performance share, incentive or bonus plan sponsored by the Company during a Plan Year.
Long-Term Performance Share Plan (LTPSP) Payments
3.22            means any Employee who is eligible to receive benefits under Article IV and who has enrolled in the Plan in accordance with Article V.
Participant
3.23            means the Rohm and Haas Company 2005 Non-Qualified Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
3.24            means the calendar year.
Plan Year
3.25            shall mean the investment fund which consists of Stock Units contributed by Participants and the Company pursuant to Article VI.
Rohm and Haas Stock Fund
3.26            shall mean the investment funds offered under the Savings Plan and designated by the Company for tracking the Trust Funds investment performance. A list of the investment funds is attached as Appendix A to the Plan.  The investment performance of the Savings Funds shall be used to measure the investment performance of the Trust Fund.  The actual investment performance of the Trust Fund may be less than or greater than that of the Savings Funds.  The Trustee is not obligated to actually invest the Participant contributions credited to the Trust Fund in the Savings Funds.  Participants Accounts shall, therefore, to the extent possible, track the investment performance of the Savings Funds.
Savings Funds
3.27            means the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership and Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Savings Plan
3.28            means the date specified by a Participant in his or her contribution agreement on which distributions from the Plan will commence.
Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date
3.29            shall have the meaning provided in regulations and other guidance issued under section 409A of the Code.
Separation from Service
3.30            means a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, which, consistent with such Code provision, shall mean an Employee who, at any time during the Plan Year, is:
Specified Employee
 
Effective January 1, 2010, a key employee (a Specified Employee) is defined as any Employee who has a job level of 820 points or higher as of his Separation from Service.
3.31            shall include the shift differential payments made to individuals (including supervisors of hourly employees) who work a rotating shift or any shift other than a day shift.
Shift Payments
3.32            shall mean any Rohm and Haas Company common stock awarded to the Participant pursuant to an employee benefit plan approved by the stockholders, determined without regard to any restriction.
Stock Awards
3.33            means a book-entry unit representing the right to acquire one share of Rohm and Haas Company common stock.  The number of Stock Units shall be adjusted to reflect stock dividends, stock splits, combinations
Stock Unit
 
33
 
 
of shares, and any other change in the corporate capital structure of Rohm and Haas Company including reorganization, recapitalization, merger and consolidation.  The value of a Stock Unit at any time shall equal the current Fair Market Value of a share of Company common stock.
3.34            means the aggregate of all Participant contributions credited to the grantor trust established by the Company pursuant to section 671 of the Code.
Trust Fund
3.35            Valuation Date means the 4 day of the month or the prior business day each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
Valuation Date
th
4.1           Each Employee of the Company who is classified as an exempt level 14 or above is eligible to become a Participant in the Plan. Participation shall be effective as soon as administratively practicable following the Participants enrollment in the Plan, as described in Sections 5.1 and 5.2 below.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual shall become a Participant in the Plan on or after March 1, 2009.
5.1           
Enrollment
5.1.1           An eligible Employee, as described in section 4.1 above, may enroll in the Plan by submitting a written, telephonic or electronic contribution agreement in accordance with Section 5.3 and any other procedures prescribed by the Administrative Committee.  Such Employee shall become a Participant effective as of the time prescribed in Section 5.2.
5.1.2           A Participant may designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, independent of any beneficiary designation under the Savings Plan, and may change such designation at any time by written notice to the Company.
5.2           For the purpose of determining the period of a Participants participation, the effective date of such participation shall be the first payroll period that begins in the calendar year following the date on which the Participants contribution agreement is received.  If the Participant makes a deferral election within 30 days after first becoming eligible (as described in Section 5.3.1), the effective date of such participation shall be the first payroll period that begins after the Participants election.
Effective Date
.  
5.3           
Contribution Agreement.
5.3.1           .  Upon first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, or upon rehire as an eligible Employee, an eligible Employee wishing to participate in the Plan must submit his or her contribution agreement to the Administrative Committee within 30 days after becoming eligible, subject to Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-2(a)(7) (which limits the ability of a rehired employee to make a deferral election during the year of rehire if the employee has, in the past, been eligible to participate in a deferred compensation plan of the Company).  Such contribution agreement shall be effective only with respect to Compensation earned after the date on which it is submitted.
First Year of Participation
5.3.2           . Contribution agreements with respect to Compensation earned in any Plan Year subsequent to the year of a Participants initial eligibility may only be submitted by a Participant during the enrollment period designated by the Administrative Committee, but in no event later than December 15 of the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which such Compensation is earned.  The 2009 Plan Year shall be the final year for new contributions in this plan.
Continuing Participation
th
5.3.3           .  Notwithstanding the above, the 2005 Plan Year shall not be considered to be the first year of participation with respect to any Employee who was eligible to participate or participated in the 2003 NQSP as of December 31, 2004.  Such Employees shall participate in this Plan in accordance with the requirements of Section 5.3.2.
Participants in the 2003 NOSP
 
34
 
whole percentage points of 1% to 50% of the Participants Compensation (excluding the Annual Bonus, LTIP/PSP Payments and Stock Awards) without regard to the Code section 401(a)(l7) limit. Such contribution agreement shall be submitted by the Participant within the time period prescribed in Section 5.3.1 or 5.3.2, as applicable.
5.3.4           .  A Participant may authorize the Company to make contributions to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account on behalf of the Participant, through a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement, in
Deferral Elections for Compensation Other than Annual Bonus, LTIP (Performance Share Plan or PSP) Payments and Stock Awards
5.3.5           .  A Participant may make a separate election, consistent with Treas. Reg. section l.409A-2(a)(8), in a written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement with respect to the Participants Annual Bonus and any LTIP/PSP Payment at least six months prior to the end of the applicable performance period relating to such Annual Bonus and/or LTIP/PSP Payment, authorizing the Company to contribute, on the Participants behalf, 1% to 100% (in whole percentage points) of the Participants Annual Bonus and/or the cash portion of the Participants LTIP/PSP Payment. Contributions under this Section 5.3.5 shall be credited to the Participants Account in the year in which the portion of the Annual Bonus and/or LTIP/PSP Payment subject to this election would otherwise have been payable to such Participant.  Amounts elected under this Section 5.3.5 may not be contributed to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account.
Deferral of Annual Bonus and LTIP/PSP Payments
5.3.6           .  Subject to the limitations described in subparagraph (d) below, a Participant may make an irrevocable election in his or her contribution agreement with respect to any Stock Award (Shares) in the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which the Stock Award is granted (or in the case of Stock Awards granted under the LTIP/PSP, at least six months prior to the end of the performance period relating to such Stock Award, consistent with Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-2(a)(8)), authorizing the Company to convert such Shares, once any applicable restrictions lapse, on the Participants behalf, into units of the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund. Units of the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund acquired pursuant to this Section may not be diversified into the Savings Fund, except as provided in Section 7.4.
Deferral of Certain Stock Awards
5.3.7           .  Unless changed as described in Section 5.3.8 below, a Participants election(s) pursuant to this Section 5.3 shall remain in full force and effect from year to year and shall govern the contributions to his or her Account.
Irrevocable Election
5.3.8           .  A Participant may elect to change or revoke his or her written, telephonic, or electronic contribution agreement with respect to future Compensation in the manner described in this Section.  Such election may be made only during the annual enrollment period designated by the Administrative Committee (and in no event later than the deadlines for deferral elections for such Compensation under Sections 5.3.2, 5.3.5, and 5.3.6).
Change in Contribution Agreement
5.4           
Designation of Time and Form of Payment.
5.4.1           .  At the time of a Participants initial election to defer Compensation pursuant to Section 5.3, he or she shall also elect the time and manner in which his or her Account will be distributed from the Plan.  Permissible distribution events and forms of benefit shall be those set forth in Article X.  Except as provided in Section 5.4.2, such election shall remain in effect from year to year and shall govern all distributions from the Participants Account.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who previously participated in the 2003 NQSP and who made or was deemed to have made a distribution election pursuant to Section 5.5 with respect to Compensation earned in 2005 and/or Shares that remain unvested as of December 31, 2004, shall be permitted to make a new distribution election on or before December 31, 2005 with respect to the portion of his or her Account attributable to Compensation earned after December 31, 2005 (including any Stock Awards granted after December 31, 2005) and any related Company matching contributions (the Post-2005 Account).  Except as provided in Section 5.4.2, such new election shall remain in effect from year to year and shall govern all distributions from the Participants Post-2005 Account.  If such Participant fails to make anew distribution election as described herein, his or her actual or deemed distribution election pursuant to Section 5.5 shall remain in effect and shall govern all distributions from the Participants Post-2005 Account.
In General
5.4.2           .  Notwithstanding the requirements of Section 5.4.1, a Participant who elects a Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date shall be permitted to make a new distribution election with respect to future Compensation in the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which the Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date occurs (and in no event later than the deadlines for deferral elections for such Compensation under Sections 5.3.2, 5.3.5, and 5.3.6).  Such election shall be made during the designated enrollment period occurring in such preceding Plan Year.  Such election shall apply to all amounts credited to the Participants Account after the Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date; provided, however, that if such election specifies a new Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date, such election shall only apply until the new Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date, and the Participant shall again make a distribution election as provided
Election of a Scheduled Benefit Payment Date
 
 
35
 
herein with respect to amounts subsequently credited to his or her Account.  If a Participant who has elected a Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date fails to make a new distribution election as provided hereunder, he or she shall be deemed to have elected to have all amounts credited to his or her Account after a Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date distributed in a single lump sum upon his or her Separation from Service (subject to a six-month delay, if applicable, as described in Section 10.1.3).
5.5           .
Treatment of Compensation Deferred Prior to 2005 under the 2003 NOSP
5.5.1           .  On or before December 31, 2005, a Participant who made a deferral election under the 2003 NQSP with respect to Compensation earned in 2005 (2005 Compensation) may cancel such election.  If a Participant does not cancel such election, his or her 2005 Compensation shall be deemed to be deferred into this Plan.  A Participant who does not cancel a deferral election with respect to 2005 Compensation shall designate the time and manner in which the portion of his or her Account attributable to 2005 Compensation and any related Company matching contributions will be distributed from the Plan. Permissible distribution events and forms of benefit shall be those set forth in Article X.  A Participant who fails to affirmatively elect a time and manner of distribution hereunder shall be deemed to have elected to have the portion of his or her Account attributable to 2005 Compensation and any related Company matching contributions distributed in a single lump sum upon his or her Separation from Service.
Compensation other than certain Stock Awards
5.5.2           .  On or before December 31, 2005, a Participant who made a deferral election under the 2003 NQSP with respect to Shares that remain unvested as of December 31, 2004 (Unvested Shares), may cancel such election.  If a Participant does not cancel such election, his or her Unvested Shares shall be deemed to be deferred into this Plan.  A Participant who does not cancel a deferral election with respect to Unvested Shares shall designate the time and manner in which the portion of his or her Account attributable to the Unvested Shares shall be distributed from the Plan.  Permissible distribution events and forms of benefit shall be those set forth in Article X.  A Participant who fails to affirmatively elect a time and manner of distribution hereunder shall be deemed to have elected to have the portion of his or her Account attributable to the Unvested Shares distributed in a single lump sum upon his or her Separation from Service.
Certain Stock Awards
6.1           .
Participant Contributions
6.1.1           .  For each payroll period, the Company, on behalf of any Participant who makes an election to contribute amounts to his or her Tax-Deferred Account pursuant to Section 5.3. above, shall credit such Participants Tax-Deferred Account with a notional amount equal to such deferral contribution(s).  Such notional contributions shall be credited to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account on a monthly basis; except that if a Participants contribution to his or her Tax-Deferred Account is attributable to an LTIP/PSP Payment, as described in Section 5.3.5 above, then such contributions shall be credited to the Participants Tax-Deferred Account as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the LTIP/PSP Payment would, but for the Participants election, have been paid to the Participant.
Tax-Deferred Account
6.1.2           .  The Company, on behalf of any Participant who makes an election pursuant to Section 5.3.6 above regarding the conversion and contribution of Shares to his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account, shall credit such Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account with a notional amount equal to such contribution(s) in the form of Stock Units.  Such notional contributions shall be allocated to the Participants Rohm and Hans Stock Account as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which the restrictions on the stock subject to the election lapse.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
6.2           .  The Company shall match each Participants contributions to the Plan pursuant to Section 6.1, except that for the purpose of this Section 6.2, contributions attributable to LTPSP Payments and Stock Awards shall be excluded.  Such matching contributions shall be made to the Participants Rohm and Hans Stock Account in Robin and Haas Stock Units.  The number of Rohm and Haas Stock Units to be contributed shall be 60% of the amount determined by dividing the lesser of (i) the Participants eligible contributions for the year, or (ii) 6% of the Participants Compensation (excluding Stock Awards and LTPSP Payments), by the Fair Market Value of Rohm and Haas common stock on the date the contribution is allocated.
Company Matching Contributions
 
36
 
7.1           .  Investment elections under this Article VII are notional only, to be used for the sole purpose of calculating the amount of a Participants benefit under the Plan at any time. Actual investments, if any, by the Company to defray the costs of this Plan will be governed by Section 8.3.
General
7.2           .  Pursuant to Section 6.1 above, and in accordance with Article VIII below, the contributions allocated to a Participants Tax-Deferred Account will be invested on a notional basis in the Savings Fund(s) elected by such Participant in the manner prescribed by the qualified Savings Plan, and contributions allocated to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account will be invested on a notional basis in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.  No contributions under this Plan may be allocated to the Rohm and Haas ESOP Fund, and no contributions may be made to the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund, (also called the Stock Unit Fund), except as permitted in subsection 5.3.6 above.  Any change in a Participants investment elections, or a transfer or diversification of finds under this Plan, will have no effect on the Participants investment elections in the qualified Savings Plan, or result in a transfer or diversification of finds under the qualified Savings Plan; and vice-versa with respect to changes, transfers, or diversification under the Savings Plan.
Participant Contributions
7.3           .  Pursuant to Section 6.2 above, and in accordance with Article VIU below, all Company matching contributions allocated to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account shall be invested on a notional basis in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.
Company Contributions
7.4           .  Investments of both Participant and Company contributions credited to the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund on a notional basis may not be subsequently reallocated to other Savings Funds, except as provided below:
Diversification of Investments in the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund
7.4.1           Subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 7.4.2 below, a Participant may diversify the portion of his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account attributable to his or her notional conversion and contribution of Stock Awards pursuant to Section 5.3.6 and/or Company matching contributions pursuant to Section 6.2 out of the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund beginning on the date which is six months after the date on which on which such Stock Awards and/or matching contributions were initially credited to such Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account, by transferring such amounts into any other available Savings Fund(s).
7.4.2           In addition to the restrictions of Section 7.4.1 above, any Participant designated as a Section 16b Insider by the Company shall be eligible to diversify his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account only during an open trading window permitted under the Companys insider trading policy.  In addition, any Participant who reallocates any portion of his or her Rohm and Haas Stock Account into any other Savings Fund(s) pursuant to Section 7.4.1 above, may not subsequently reallocate investments into the Rohm and Haas Stock Fund.
7.5           Subject to any limitations which may exist with respect to transfers as provided in the prospectus for a particular Savings Fund, a Participant may elect to transfer any portion of his or her existing Account balance, except for amounts credited to the Rohm and Haas Stock Account, among the available Savings Funds at any time. A Participant may not transfer any portion of his or her existing Account balance into the Robin and Haas Stock Fund.
Investment Reallocation.
Amounts credited to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account are subject to the diversification rules described in Section 7.4 above.
8.1           The Administrative Committee shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, for each participant a Rohm and Haas Stock Account and a Tax-Deferred Account.  Notional amounts equal to the value of a Participants before-tax contributions shall be credited to the participants Tax-Deferred Account or Rohm and Haas Stock Account by the Company on the participants behalf, as appropriate.  Notional amounts equal to the value of the Companys matching contributions shall be credited to the Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account.
8.2           The notional amount credited to a Participants Account will be reduced by any amounts withdrawn.
 
37
 
8.3           Notwithstanding Article VII, the Administrative Committee shall direct the Trustee to establish a Trust Fund for the Plan.  The Investment Committee shall direct the investment of such Trust Fund.  The actual investment of the Trust Fund need not correspond to actual Participant elections under Section 7.1.  As of each Valuation Date, the Trustee will determine the value of each Savings Fund, including Income thereon.  The Trustee shall also value the Trust Fund as of each Valuation Date, and report to the Company the difference between the Trust Funds actual value and the Savings Funds value, as derived from the investment elections by Participants.
8.4           The Investment Committee shall direct the funding of the Trust Fund from time to time as it deems appropriate and in the best interests of Participants and the Company, provided, however, that the funding of the trust fund shall be consistent with section 409A(b) of the Code.
Pursuit to terms of the trust, the trust was fully funded as of April 1, 2009.
9.1           A Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in all amounts credited to his or her Account.
9.2           A Participant with funds transferred from an account under the Morton International, Inc. Supplemental Employee Savings and Investment Plan (a SESIP Account) shall become 100% vested in the amount of such funds as of the date of transfer.
10.1         Timing of Distribution.
10.1.1      .  A Participant may elect, at the time of his or her initial deferral of Compensation, to receive distribution of his or her Account commencing on:
Elected by Participant
(a)           the Participants Separation from Service; or
(b)           a Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date; or
(c)           the earlier to occur of the events described in subparagraphs (a) and (b)
10.1.2           .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, distributions shall be made prior to the time elected by the Participant upon the Participants death, or, if the Participant is a party to a Continuity Agreement with the Company on December 31, 2008, upon a Change in Control, provided that the Change in Control constitutes an event described in section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
Other Distribution Events
10.1.3           .  In the case of any participant who is a Specified Employee, a distribution payable on account of such participants Separation from Service shall not commence until six months after the date of such Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participants death).
Distributions to Specified Employees
10.1.4           Distributions shall commence as soon as is administratively feasible following the applicable distribution event, but in no event later than 60 days following such event, consistent with, and except as provided by, Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(d).  If distribution is made on account of the Participants death, such distribution shall be made to his or her Beneficiary(ies).  All decisions made by the Administrative Committee in good faith and based upon affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Committee regarding questions of fact in the determination of the identity of such Beneficiary(ies) shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties, and payment made in accordance therewith shall satisfy all liability hereunder.
10.2           
Forms of Benefit
 
38
 
10.2.1           .Distributions made on account of the events set forth in Section 10.1.1 shall be paid as provided in subparagraphs (a) or (b) below.
Distribution on Account of Separation from Service or at a Specified Time
 
(a)           A Participant may elect, during the time or times set forth in Section 5.4 and/or Section 5.5 (as applicable), to receive distribution of his or her Account:
(i)           in a single sum payment; or
(ii)           in annual installment payments over a term of years selected by the Participant, which shall not exceed twenty (20) years.  If a participant makes a change to their form of payment after January 1, 2010 according to the change rules in section 5.4.2, the installment payments cannot exceed fifteen (15) years.   This installment payment option shall be treated as the entitlement to a single payment for purposes of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii). Each installment payment shall equal the balance of such Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date, times a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of remaining installment payments.  Each subsequent installment shall be paid on or about the succeeding anniversary of such first payment or monthly intervals, if selected.  Each such installment shall be deemed to be made on a pro rata basis from each of the different deemed investments of the Deferral Account (if there is more than one such deemed investment). All decisions made by the Administrative Committee in good faith and based upon an affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Committee regarding questions of fact in the determination of the identity of such Beneficiary(ies) shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties, and payment made in accordance therewith shall satisfy all liability hereunder.
(b)           If a Participant fails to elect a form of benefit as provided in subparagraph (a), his or her Account shall be paid in a single lump sum.
10.2.2           . Distributions made on account of death or a Change in Control shall be distributed in a single lump sum as soon as is administratively feasible, but in no event later than 60 days following, as applicable, death or the Change in Control (consistent with, and except as provided by, Treas. Reg. section l.409A-3(d)).  A distribution on account of death shall be made to the Participants Beneficiary(ies).  All decisions made by the Administrative Committee in good faith and based upon an affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Committee regarding questions of fact in the determination of the identity of such Beneficiary(ies) shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties, and payment made in accordance therewith shall satisfy all liability hereunder.
Other Distributions
10.3           .  With respect to previously deferred Compensation, a Participant may elect to change the time of distribution elected pursuant to Section 10.1.1 and/or the form of benefit elected pursuant to Section 10.2.1 (a subsequent election), subject to Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-2(b), if the following requirements are met.
Change in Time of Distribution and Form of Benefit
10.3.1           The subsequent election shall not take effect for at least twelve (12) months after the date of such subsequent election;
10.3.2           The first payment with respect to such subsequent election shall not be made until at least five (5) years after the date on which distribution would have otherwise begun; provided that earlier distribution may be made in the event of the Participants death; and
10.3.3           If applicable, the subsequent election shall be made at least 12 months prior to a Scheduled Benefit Distribution Date.
10.4           .  Notwithstanding the Participants elected time and form of distribution pursuant to Section 10.2 and the restrictions of Section 10.3, the time or schedule of a payment shall be accelerated in the following circumstances:
Permitted Acceleration of Payment
10.4.1           Payment shall be made to the extent necessary to comply with a domestic relations order (as defined in section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code) that meets the requirements of the Companys domestic relations order procedures applicable to non-qualified plans, if such payment is made to an individual other than the Participant.
10.4.2           Payment shall be made to the extent necessary for the Participant to comply with an ethics agreement with the Federal government, and to the extent reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of applicable Federal, state or local ethics law or conflicts of interest law.
 
39
 
10.4.3           Payment of a Participants entire Account shall be made upon his or her Separation from Service, provided that the payment is made on or before the later of (A) the December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs or (B) the date that is two and one-half (2 ) months after the Participants Separation from Service..  Payment shall be made at the time specified in Section 10.1 (including, when applicable, the six-month delay in Section 10.1.3).
10.4.4           Payment shall be made to the extent necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements, subject to Treas. Reg. section 1.409A- 3(j)(4)(vi).
10.5           Form of Distribution
10.5.1           .  Amounts from a Participants Tax-Deferred Account shall be distributed in cash.
Tax-Deferred Account
10.5.2           .  Stock Units notionally credited to a Participants Rohm and Haas Stock Account shall be distributed in Company common stock shares.  The amount of such shares to be distributed shall equal the number of whole Stock Units, plus a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value on the date of distribution of any fractional Stock Units, which are credited to the Participants Account as of the date of distribution.
Rohm and Haas Stock Account
11.1           If a Participants employment is terminated, and he or she is subsequently reemployed as an Employee eligible to participate in the Plan under Article IV, such eligible Employee may again participate in the Plan in accordance with Article V.
12.1           The Administrative Committee will be responsible for the administration of the Plan and is designated as the Plans agent to receive service of process.  All matters relating to the administration of the Plan, including the duties imposed upon the Plan administrator by law, except those duties relating to the control or management of Plan assets shall be the responsibility of the Administrative Committee.  The Investment Committee will have the authority and responsibility to control and manage the assets of the Plan, if any.  Members of both the Administrative Committee and the Investment Committee shall be appointed and removed by the Chief Executive Officer, or his or her designee.
12.2           The Administrative Committee shall have the full responsibility to represent the Company and the Participants in all things it may deem necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the decision of the Administrative Committee upon any question of fact, interpretation, definition or procedure relating to the administration of the Plan shall be conclusive.  The responsibilities of the Administrative Committee shall include the following:
12.2.1           Verifying all procedures by which payments to Participants and their Beneficiaries are authorized;
12.2.2           Deciding all questions relating to the eligibility of Employees to become Participants in the Plan;
12.2.3           Interpreting the provisions of the Plan in all particulars;
12.2.4           Establishing and publishing rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan;
12.2.5           Preparing an individual record for each Participant in the Plan, which shall be available for examination by such Participant, the Investment Committee and its members, or other authorized persons; and
12.2.6           Reviewing and answering any denied claim for benefits that has been appealed to the Administrative Committee under the provisions of Section 14.6.
 
40
 
12.3           The following general provision shall govern the actions of either the Administrative or Investment Committee:
12.3.1           The Committee shall choose a chairman from its members and shall appoint a secretary who shall keep minutes of the Committees proceedings and shall be responsible for preparing such reports as may be advisable for the administration of the Plan.  The Committee may employ and compensate such advisory, clerical, and other employees as it may deem reasonable and necessary to the performance of its duties.
12.3.2           The action of the Committee shall be determined by a majority vote of all its members, except that no member of the Committee may vote on any question relating specifically to himself or herself.
12.3.3           The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their services as such.  All expenses of the Committee shall be paid by the Company.
12.3.4           The chairman or the secretary of the Committee may execute any written direction on behalf of the Committee.
12.3.5           The Committee may, at its discretion, allocate among its members or to other persons those functions and responsibilities which it deems advisable for the efficient and effective operation and management of the Plan.
12.3.6           Except as expressly provided, neither the Committee nor any member thereof shall be in any way subject to any suit or litigation or to any legal liability for any cause or reason or thing whatsoever in connection with the administration or financial performance of the Plan.
13.1           .  The Company reserves the right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, in any fashion, including such amendments as are necessary to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.
Plan Amendment
13.2           .  The Company reserves the right at any time before that date to reduce, suspend or discontinue payments to be made by it as provided hereunder.  The Company reserves the right to discontinue the Plan at any time.  However, in no event shall a discontinuance of the Plan cause the distribution of Accounts prior to the time or times provided in Article X.  In the event of a Change in Control, the Company may in its discretion terminate the Plan and distribute all Accounts to Participants within 12 months after such Change in Control to the extent permitted under section 409A of the Code.
Expiration of the Plan
14.1           The right of any Participant or Beneficiary to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company.  Any trust, and any other fund, account, contract or arrangement that the Company chooses to establish for the future payment of benefits under this Plan to a Participant or Beneficiary shall remain part of the Companys general assets and no person claiming payments under the Plan shall have any right, title or interest in or to any such trust, fund, account, contract or arrangement.
14.2           Where appropriate, and wherever the singular is used, it shall be interpreted as including the plural.
14.3           To the extent permitted by law, payments to and benefits under the Plan shall not be assignable. To the extent permitted by law, such payments and benefits shall not be subject to attachment by creditors of, or through legal processes against, any Participant or Beneficiary.
14.4           Participation in the Plan shall not give any Employee the right to be retained in the service of the Company, nor any right or claim to annuity income unless such right has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan.
 
41
 
14.5           If any person entitled to receive any benefits hereunder is a minor, or is deemed by the Administrative Committee or is adjudged to be legally incapable of giving a valid receipt and discharge for such benefits, they will be paid to the duly appointed guardian, custodian or committee of such minor or incompetent, or they may be paid to such persons who the Administrative Committee believes are caring for or supporting such minor or incompetent.
14.6           Any Participant or Beneficiary who claims to be entitled to the payment of a benefit under the Plan, should bring the matter to the attention of the Company, normally through a local personnel department.  If a specific claim as to the amount of any benefit, the method of payment or any other matter under the Plan is denied, the claimant will be provided with a written notice, normally within 90 days of the date the claim was filed.  The notice will include:
14.6.1           the specific reason or reasons for the denial;
14.6.2           the specific reference or references to the Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
14.6.3           a notice that the claimant or the claimants duly authorized representative may appeal the denial to the Administrative Committee within 60 days; and
14.6.4           a description of any additional information or material necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of the need for such material or information.
In the event of an appeal, the claimant or the claimants representative. may submit a written application for review of the denial, may examine documents relating to this Plan or the claim, and may submit written issues, comments, and documents.  Such appeal will be promptly considered by the Administrative Committee.
14.7           .  If a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to have received benefits but has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must accept any payment made under the Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good faith efforts to collect the remaining portion of the payment, as determined under Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(g).  For this purpose (and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the payment will be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts, unless the Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator within 90 days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under section 409A of the Code, and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further enforcement measures within 180 days after such latest date.
Additional Claims Procedures for Section 409A
14.8           .  Notwithstanding the other provisions hereof, this Plan shall be construed and interpreted to comply with section 409A of the Code and if necessary, any provision shall be held null and void to the extent such provision (or part thereof) fails to comply with Section 409A of the Code or regulations thereunder.  However, in no event shall the Company, its officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plans failure to satisfy the requirements of section 409A of the Code, or as a result of the Plans failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
Plan Interpretation and Section 409A
14.9           .  The Plan Administrator may make payment on any day later than the date specified in the Plan as a result of administrative delay to the extent that such payment is treated as being paid on the date specified in the Plan under Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(d), which generally permits payment to be made later within the same calendar year, or, if later, within 2  months following the date specified in the Plan, provided that the Participant is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.
Administrative Delay
14.10         Except insofar as the law of Pennsylvania has been superseded by Federal law, Pennsylvania law shall govern the construction, validity and administration of this Plan.
 
42
 
APPENDIX A: Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
The funds offered in the Savings Plan are also offered in this plan.
 
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
43
 

 
 
 
 
 
Copies of this SPD can be found on the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection or by requesting a copy from the Human Resources (HR) Service Center, Employee Development Center, Midland, MI 48674, telephone 1-877-623-8079 or 1-989-638-8757.  Summaries of modifications may also be published from time to time in Dows Newsline publication or by separate letter.
This booklet is the Summary Plan Description (SPD) for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan).  It is also the SPD for The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan) and Dependent Life Insurance Plan (Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  These plans are collectively referred to in this SPD as Plans.  Individually, each plan may be referred to as Plan, in its respective Chapter of this SPD.  References to Dow refer collectively to The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates authorized to participate in the Plans.  The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program are collectively referred to as the Programs.
Chapter One applies to the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  The premium is paid by Dow.  It provides automatic coverage for eligible Employees.
Chapter Two applies to the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by MetLife.  You must enroll and pay the premiums for this coverage to receive it.
Chapter Three applies to the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by MetLife.  You must enroll and pay the premiums for this coverage to receive it.
Words that are capitalized are either defined in this SPD or the applicable Plan Document. The applicable Plan Document for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program Plan Document.  The applicable Plan Document for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Plans is The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Program Plan Document.  The Plan Documents are available by requesting from the applicable Plan Administrator listed in thesection of this SPD.
ERISA Information
 
44
 
References to Participating Employer refer to The Dow Chemical Company or any other corporation or business entity The Dow Chemical Company authorizes to participate in the Plans with respect to its Employees.  The terms Dow and Participating Employers have the same meaning, and may be used interchangeably in this SPD.   The term Employee means a person who:
 
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
45
 
Plan Description
 
Except for Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008, the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan provides coverage of one times (1X) your base annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000 for Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees whose collective bargaining unit has agreed to this plan.  Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008 but continue to be on the payroll (for example due to a paid medical leave of absence) and were covered at 1/2X prior to January 1, 2008, may continue 1/2X coverage as long as they continue to be on the payroll.  If they return to work, their coverage will increase to 1X when they are Actively at Work.   MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Michigan Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Hampshire Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; and The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs ANGUS Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
The Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter One as the Plan.
Eligibility
 
Salaried Employees
 
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible and are automatically covered under this Plan, except as follows:
1
 
 
 
 
Hourly Employees
 
Eligibility of Hourly Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Hourly Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular, active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining unit.
addresses which Employees are
 
1
 
If you were enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company, you are eligible until you no longer have active Employee status, or until you elect to waive coverage.  In addition, if you were enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan (UCC Executive Life) on October 31, 2002, and had active Employee status on the date that your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated, you are eligible until you no longer have active Employee status, or until you elect to waive coverage.   Once coverage is waived, you will not be allowed to re-enroll in the future.
 
 
 
46
 
 
Employees on a Leave of Absence
 
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain leaves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
 
 
Disabled Employees
If you are being paid a benefit from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD), The Dow Chemical Company Michigan Hourly Contract Disability Plan, The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Total and Permanent Disability Plan, or the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan you may be eligible under the Plan. See the section of this SPD.
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  See the section of this SPD.
Employee who
2
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program.  See the section of this SPD.
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
 
Plan Administrator Determines Eligibility
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the Claims Procedures Appendix of this SPD.
 
Enrollment
 
Completing an enrollment form is necessary only to name your beneficiary.  You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  
If you waive coverage, you waive coverage permanently.  You may not re-enroll in this Plan at any time in the future.
 
Employee Contribution
 
Dow provides Company-Paid Life Insurance at no cost to you.
 
 
Amount of Coverage.
 
Maximum Coverage
 
The maximum amount of coverage available is $1.5 million.
3
 
2 
If you are Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program. Note that Morton Salt was no longer a part of Dows controlled group as of October 1, 2009.
 
3
This maximum is waived if you are an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company.  This maximum is also waived if you were enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan on October 31, 2002, and you were an active Employee on the date that your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated.
 
47
 
 
Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees Whose Collective Bargaining Unit Has Agreed to this Plan
Except for Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008, and Americas Styrenics Hourly Employees, the Plan provides coverage of one times (1X) your base annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000 for Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees whose collective bargaining unit has agreed to this plan.
Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008 but continue to be on the payroll (for example due to a paid medical leave of absence) and were covered at 1/2X prior to January 1, 2008, may continue 1/2X coverage as long as they continue to be on the payroll.  If they return to work, their coverage will increase to 1X when they are Actively at Work.
For Americas Styrenics Hourly Employees, coverage is 1X the employee's annual base benefits rate (ABBR) rounded up to the next $1,000, as defined by Americas Styrenics and provided to the Plan Administrator.
Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes, provided you are Actively at Work.  If you are Less-Than-Full-Time, your 1X coverage is based on your Full-Time base annual salary, and coverage is automatically adjusted as your base salary changes.  Whether you are Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time, if you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.
 
Union Carbide Employees
 
If you are a Union Carbide employee, your benefit will be determined using your annual pay at Union Carbide as of December 31, 2001, as determined under the provisions of the Union Carbide Basic Life Insurance Plan until your annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan exceeds such amount.  At that time, the Plan will no longer retain the December 31, 2001 Union Carbide annual pay information and will look solely to the annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan to determine the amount of your coverage.
 
 
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD)
Effective January 1, 2006, if your date of Full Disability (as defined under LTD) is on or after January 1, 2006, you are eligible for coverage when your LTD benefit payments begin.  The following applies to you:
If you have less than ten (10) years of service under the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP) or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP), you are eligible for up to either 12 months or 24 months of company paid life insurance coverage.  Coverage ends prior to the expiration of the 12 month or 24 month period if you no longer qualify for LTD status.  The 12 month period applies if you have less than one (1) year of service under DEPP or UCEPP.  The 24 month period applies if you have more than one (1) year of service, but less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP.   Currently, if you have ten (10) or more years of service you are eligible for coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
The amount of coverage is the same as the amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
If your date of Full Disability (as defined under LTD) is prior to January 1, 2006, you are eligible for coverage when your LTD benefit payments begin
4
.  The following applies to you:
You are eligible for the same amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.  Currently, coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
 
4
This also applies to those who were disabled prior to January 1, 2006, and were approved to receive benefit payments for such disability under the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan.
 
48
 
You are also eligible for an additional amount of coverage, which is determined by the amount of Employee-Paid Life coverage you were enrolled in as an active Employee immediately prior to being approved to receive LTD payments, but not to exceed 1X (For example, if you were enrolled for 6X as an active Employee, your coverage would be reduced to 1X).  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.  Currently, coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
 
 
For salaried employees, base annual salary is used to calculate the life insurance amount.  For bargained-for employees, annual pay calculated using your base hourly rate is used.
 
 
Texas Total and Permanent Disability
 
If you were enrolled in the Texas Operations Hourly Total and Permanent Disability Plan (T&P Plan) and you were deemed to be totally and permanently disabled by the plan administrator of that plan, and it was determined that you are eligible to be in benefits pay status by the plan administrator of that plan, you are eligible for coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan equal to the amount of coverage you were enrolled in under the Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Contributory Plan (Contributory Life) at the time you became totally and permanently disabled.  Coverage ends the earlier of: 1) you are determined to no longer be totally & permanently disabled by the plan administrator of the T&P Plan, or 2) you reach age 65.
 
 
Contract Disability Participants
 
If you have been determined to be totally and permanently disabled by the claims administrator of The Dow Chemical Company Michigan Hourly Contract Disability Plan (Contract Disability Plan), and are receiving benefit payments from that plan, the same coverage you had as an active Employee will continue until you are age 65.  Eligibility for coverage ends earlier if you no longer are eligible for benefit payments under the Contract Disability Plan.  If you were Actively at Work at age 65 or older and subsequently became approved for benefits by the Contract Disability plan administrator, your coverage will be determined by applying the appropriate percentage from the following table to your base annual hourly rate effective the day before you qualified to receive benefit payments under the Contract Disability Plan, with a minimum of $5,000.
 
Your Age
 
   
Percentage
    6550 percent
   
  
    6630 percent
   
  
    6710 percent
   
  
    685  percent
 
   
 
 
On and after your 70 birthday, the amount of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefits will be $5,000.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
th
 
 
Rohm and Haas Company Disability Participants
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for 2X coverage if your qualifying disability was incurred prior to January 1, 2010 and you remain disabled as of January 1, 2010.  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  
5
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long-Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for 2X coverage if your qualifying disability was incurred prior to January 1, 2010 and you remain disabled as of January 1, 2010.  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  
 
5
 
If you are  Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
49
 
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for 1X coverage if your qualifying disability was incurred on or after January 1, 2010.  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program.
 
Effective Dates of Coverage.
 
Your coverage begins on your first day of active employment as an Employee of a Participating Employer, unless you were a former participant of The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan or the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan as described above in the Eligibility section, in which case your coverage begins the first day of the month following the termination of your participation in such executive life insurance plan.
Beginning.
 
 
Ending.
Your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
     the date the Group Policy ends;
      the date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan; or
      the date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends and you are not eligible for Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
 
 
Converting to an Individual Policy
 
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage you lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company- Paid Life Insurance you lost under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the date your employment ends.
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your work group, you may convert your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
    $2,000.
  
 
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or reduced.  Contact the Dow HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information. You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
 
50
 
 
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
Reporting Imputed Income
 
The Internal Revenue Code requires that the cost of Company-Paid Life Insurance in excess of $50,000 be reported as taxable income (imputed income).  This imputed income will be reported on your W-2 Form in addition to your other taxable income.  Former participants of The Dow Chemical Company Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan and the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan are not eligible for the $50,000 exclusion.
The cost of your Company-Paid Life Insurance in excess of $50,000 is based on a Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If your Company Paid Life coverage is greater than $50,000, and you want to decrease the amount of coverage from 1X to $50,000, you may elect to do so by contacting the HR Service Center.  Once coverage is reduced, it may not be reinstated.
Naming Your Beneficiary
Effective March 1, 2008, as communicated by the Plan Administrator, MetLife became the record keeper for the Programs beneficiary records.  Beneficiary information must be registered with MetLife at , or by mailing the appropriate forms to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center.  Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center has not been transferred to MetLife.  If you fail to name a beneficiary, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
If you fail to name a beneficiary, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans and MetLifes liability to the extent of such payment.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or you need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection.  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
Benefit Payments
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the HR Service Center. The beneficiary on record must complete and sign a claim form to receive benefits, and a certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds. To file a Claim for a Plan Benefit, see Claims Procedures Appendix of this SPD.
Payment Options.
 
Funding
Dow pays the entire premium for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  MetLife pays the benefits under an insurance policy.  MetLife may combine the experience for the policy with other policies held by Dow.  This means that the costs of these coverages may be determined on a combined basis, and the costs accumulated from year to year.  Favorable experience under one or more coverages in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience on other coverages in the same year or offset unfavorable experience of coverages in prior years.  Policy dividends declared by MetLife for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan are used to reduce Dows cost for the coverage in the same and prior years.
 
51
 
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefits before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life insurance proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation.  Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the , section, section, section, , section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim section
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights section
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
 
52
 
Plan Description
Under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan, you may select the amount of your coverage in multiples of one-half times (1/2X) your base annual salary up eight times (8X) your base annual pay.  The Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan is a group term life insurance plan.  The benefits are insured by a group term life insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  MetLife pays the benefits under the Plan.  In addition, MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan:  Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan; ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  As of January 1, 2008, the Michigan Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan has been merged into the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan. The Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Two as the Plan.
Eligibility
Salaried Employees
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible.
Hourly Employees
Eligibility of Hourly Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically addresses which Employees are eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Hourly Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular, active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining unit.
Employees on a Leave of Absence
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain leaves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
Disabled Employees
If you are being paid a benefit from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD) or the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan you may be eligible under the Plan. See the section of this SPD.
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.  See the section of this SPD.
6
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for the same
 
6
 
If you are  Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
53
 
 
amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.  See the section of this SPD.
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
Plan Administrator Determines Eligibility
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Enrollment
To obtain Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage, enroll during open enrollment or complete an enrollment form, available from the HR Service Center or the Dow Intranet. You may enroll:
Failure to provide the prerequisite proofs will result in cancellation of coverage, including retroactive cancellation, and may require you to reimburse the Plan for any benefits paid by the Plan.  The Plan Administrator may request proof of your age at any time.
Change-in-Status
A change in status is an event listed in one of the bullets below:
 
7
If you are employed by Rohm and Haas Company or one of its subsidiaries that is a Participating Employer, for open enrollment for the 2010 Plan Year, you may enroll in the amount of coverage you had under the Rohm and Haas Supplemental Life Insurance Program as of December 31, 2009 without providing a statement of health.  If you were enrolled in the Rohm and Haas Supplemental Life Insurance Program for less than 3X your annual salary, or you were not enrolled in that plan at all, for open enrollment for the 2010 Plan Year only, you may enroll for up to 3X base annual salary without a statement of health.  If you were enrolled in the Rohm and Haas Plan for 3X or more, you may increase your coverage by  X during open enrollment without providing a statement of health.  If you want to increase by more than  X, then you must provide a statement of health that is approved by MetLife.
 
54
 
 
Employee Contribution
Your contribution, made through post tax payroll deductions, is based on your annual base salary.  In addition, your contribution is based on your age and whether you are a non-tobacco-user.  As your age and salary change, your deductions will be automatically adjusted.  You are considered a non tobacco-user by the Plan if you have not used a tobacco product in the last 12 months.  If you quit using tobacco, you are considered a non-tobacco-user as of the first day of the month after you complete 12 non-tobacco-using months.  If you are a tobacco user, you are considered a tobacco user as of the first day you use tobacco.  Administratively, you will not be adjusted to tobacco user deductions until the first of the month following the tobacco use.   A false or out of date statement regarding tobacco use may result in benefits not being paid.
Current rates are listed in your open enrollment brochure.  These costs are reviewed and revised periodically.
If you are on a leave of absence approved by the Participating Employer that provides eligibility under this Plan, the Plan Administrator has the full discretion to make special administrative arrangements as are necessary, such as deferring Employee contributions on a temporary basis during the leave of absence, and requiring the Employee to repay premiums when the Employee returns to work, or any other arrangements the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.
If the last payroll period for a Plan Year occurs partly during a current Plan Year and partly during the next Plan Year, the Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to modify the Participant contributions in any way that the Plan Administrator deems administratively efficient, including modifying the Participant contributions for the last payroll period without the Participants consent.
Amount of Coverage
Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees of Applicable Collective Bargaining Groups (Not applicable to Long Term Disability Participants)
You may purchase coverage in increments equal to one-half times (1/2X) your annual base salary, rounded up to the next $1,000.  The maximum coverage allowable is equal to eight times (8X) your annual salary up to a $1.5 million limit.  If you are Less-Than-Full-Time, your coverage is based on your Full-Time base annual salary.  Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes, provided you are Actively at Work ,  Whether you are Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time, if you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.  If you are a Union Carbide employee, your benefit will be determined using your annual pay at Union Carbide as of December 31, 2001, as determined under the provisions of the Union Carbide Basic Life Insurance Plan until your annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan exceed such amount.  At that time, the Plan will no longer retain the December 31, 2001, Union Carbide annual pay information and will look solely to the annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan to determine the amount of your coverage.
8
9
 
 
are an Americas Styrenics Hourly Employee, your benefit will be determined using your annual base benefits rate (ABBR) rounded up to the next $1,000, as defined by Americas Styrenics and provided to the Plan Administrator.
If you
8
 
 
9
are eligible for an additional 1x of coverage over and above the 8x or $1.5 million maximum if  (1) you are an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company who elected to purchase the additional 1x coverage effective October 1, 2003, or (2) you are an Employee who was enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan on October 31, 2002, and you were an active Employee on the date your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated and you elected to purchase the additional 1x coverage effective November 1, 2003.  If you waive the additional 1x coverage, you are not eligible to enroll for such coverage in the future.  Further, you are no longer eligible for any coverage under the Plan when you no longer have active Employee status.
 You
 
55
 
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
You may be eligible for coverage if you are being paid benefits from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD) under the following circumstances:
If the date of your Full Disability is on or after January 1, 2006 the following applies to you:
If you have less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP, you are eligible for up to either 12 months or 24 months of Employee-Paid life insurance coverage beginning on the effective date of your approval for LTD status.  Coverage ends prior to the expiration of the 12 month or 24 month period if you no longer qualify for LTD status.  The 12 month period applies if you have less than one (1) year of service under DEPP or UCEPP.  The 24 month period applies if you have more than one (1) year of service, but less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP.   If you have ten (10) or more years of service under DEPP or UCEPP, you are eligible for coverage.  Currently, eligibility for coverage ends if you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
The amount of coverage will depend on the amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  If you had X, then the coverage amount is  X.  If you had 1X or more, then the amount is limited to 1X.  You will be required to pay the same premiums active employees pay.
Rohm and Haas Company Disability Participants
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
10
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
Increasing or Decreasing Coverage
You may increase the amount of your coverage (but not above the maximum amount you are eligible for):
You may decrease the amount of your coverage any time by completing an enrollment form, available from the HR Service Center or the Dow Intranet.
 
10
 
If you are  Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
56
 
Effective Dates of Coverage
Your coverage generally begins on your date of enrollment and when you meet the enrollment requirements outlined in this booklet.  Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes.  If you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.
Beginning
.
Your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
Ending.  
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid; or
The date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage you lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Employee-Paid Life Insurance you lost under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Employee-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Employee -Paid Life Insurance Plan on the date your employment ends.
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your work group, you may convert your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under  the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or reduces.  Contact the Dow HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
Naming Your Beneficiary
Effective March 1, 2008, as communicated by the Plan Administrator, MetLife became the record keeper for the Programs beneficiary records.  Beneficiary information must be registered with MetLife at , or by
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
 
57
 
mailing the appropriate forms to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center.  Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center has not been transferred to MetLife.
If you do not designate a beneficiary, then the default beneficiary will be the same as the beneficiary on your Company-Paid Life Insurance.  If you are not eligible for Company-Paid Life Insurance, and you are enrolled in Post-65 Executive Life, then the default beneficiary is the same as your beneficiary for Post-65 Executive Life.
If you fail to name a beneficiary, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
If you fail to name a beneficiary, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans and MetLifes liability to the extent of such payment.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or you need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection.  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
Benefit Payments
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the HR Service Center.  A death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  To file a Claim for a Plan Benefit, of this SPD.
Payment Options
.  
certified
see
Claims Procedures Appendix
Funding
Employees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any dividends declared for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that is allowed by the U.S. Department of Labor pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 96-62 and 29 CFR Part 2570, subpart B. [DOL Final Authorization Number 2001-17E (May 14, 2001)].  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life insurance proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Company
 
58
 
Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
 
59
 
Plan Description
The Dependent Life Insurance Plan provides coverage for your eligible family members at group rates.   The benefits are insured by a group term life insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  MetLife pays the benefits under the Plan.  In addition, MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Dependent Life Insurance Plan:  Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan; ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  As of January 1, 2008, the Michigan Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan has been merged into the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
The Dependent Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Three as the Plan.
Eligibility
Salaried Employees:
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible.
Bargained-for Employees:
Eligibility of Bargained-for Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically addresses which Employees are eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Bargained for Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining group.
Employees on a Leave of Absence:
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain laves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
Plan Administrator Determines Eligibility
:
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.  If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Run-out claims under ERISA Plan #505 (which was terminated effective 12-31-99) for covered claims that were incurred but not yet paid under that plan, will be paid from this Plan.
Dependent Eligibility
You may purchase coverage on the life of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or the life of your Dependent child or Dependent children.
Child means your natural child, adopted child or stepchild who is:
 
60
 
The Plan defines a Full-Time Student as a student who is a full-time student at an educational institution at any time during the Plan Year.  The determination as to whether a student is full-time is based upon the number of hours or courses which is considered to be full-time by the educational institution.  If a child is age 19 to 25, and loses Full-Time Student status solely because the student has an illness or injury that requires the student to take a medically necessary leave of absence from school, the child is deemed by the Plan to continue to be a Full-Time Student until the earlier of age 25 or the end of the medically necessary leave of absence.
Generally, a child is NOT a Dependent if he or she is:
A Dependent Spouse, Domestic Partner, or child is not eligible if he or she resides outside the United States and Canada, or is in the military.
Enrollment
To enroll for Dependent Life Insurance coverage, enroll through the open enrollment period or complete an enrollment form, available from the Intranet or the HR Service Center as described below.  You may enroll:
The Plan Administrator may request proof of Dependent eligibility and proof of age at any time.  Proof may consist of a birth certificate, passport, adoption papers, marriage license, statement of Domestic Partnership or any other proof that the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.  Failure to provide proof of Dependent eligibility and proof of age within the time period required will result in no Dependent coverage.
 
61
 
If you enrolled for coverage for your Dependent(s) and fail to provide proof of Dependent eligibility or proof of age satisfactory to the Plan Administrator within the time period required, and the Plan determines that your Dependent(s) is or are not covered, the Plan reserves the right not to refund the premiums you paid, and to cancel coverage of your Dependent(s) retroactive to the date you enrolled your Dependent(s).
Change-in-Status
A change in status is an event listed in one of the bullets below:
Amount of Coverage
Salaried Employees and Collective Bargaining Groups that Agreed to this Plan
You may select coverage for your Spouse/Domestic Partner and Dependent children based on the following options.
LTD participants are not eligible for Spouse/Domestic Partner and Dependent Life Coverage.
Increasing or Decreasing Coverage
You may increase the amount of coverage (but not above the maximum amount you are eligible for):
You may decrease the amount of your coverage at any time by completing an enrollment card, available from the Dow Intranet or the HR Service Center.
Effective Dates of Coverage
Your coverage generally begins on your date of enrollment and when you meet the enrollment requirements outlined in this booklet.
Beginning.
 
 
62
 
Ending
Your Dependent Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you or your Dependent no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid;
The date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If Dependent Life coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage.
If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent childs life insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child life insurance you lost under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan because of your death or because he or she no longer meets eligibility requirements, their coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  (In the case of minor children, the parent or legal guardian may act on their behalf.) The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Dependent Life Insurance that ends under the Dependent Life Insurance provisions of the MetLife group policy.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan because Dow has cancelled the dependent life coverage under the group policy with MetLife, or Dow has amended the eligibility requirements of the Plan to exclude you or your dependents from eligibility under the Plan, you may convert coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy for your Dependent; provided you have been enrolled in coverage for your Dependent  under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to the date the MetLife group coverage  for our Dependent ended.  The amount that may be converted is limited to the lesser of:
A conversion application must be filed with MetLife within 31 days of the date coverage is lost or reduced.  You or your Dependent must contact the HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting the coverage.   Once the form has been obtained, you or your Dependent should contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than the group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce the cost.
Employee Contribution
The Employee pays for Dependent Life Insurance coverage.  Your contribution, made through post tax payroll deductions, is based on the coverage option that you choose. For coverage on your Spouses/Domestic Partners life, your contribution
 
63
 
will also depend on whether your Spouse/Domestic Partner is a non-tobacco-user. Your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a non-tobacco-user by the Plan if your Spouse/Domestic Partner has not used a tobacco product in the last 12 months.  If your Spouse/Domestic Partner quits using tobacco, your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a non-tobacco-user as of the first day of the month after your Spouse/Domestic Partner completes 12 non-tobacco-using months.  If your Spouse/Domestic Partner is a non-tobacco-user, your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a tobacco-user as of the first day your Spouse/Domestic Partner uses tobacco.  A false or out-of-date statement regarding tobacco use may result in benefits not being paid. For your portion of the monthly costs, refer to the open enrollment materials provided during open enrollment.
If you are on a Benefit Protected Leave of Absence, the Plan Administrator has the full discretion to make special administrative arrangements as are necessary, such as deferring Employee contributions on a temporary basis during the leave of absence, and requiring the Employee to repay premiums when the Employee returns to work, or any other arrangements the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.
Benefit Payment
You are the beneficiary of your Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
The benefits will be paid to you if you survive the Dependent.  If you do not survive your Dependent, MetLife may pay one or more of the following who survive you:
If you do not survive your Dependent, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans liability to the extent of such payment.
You should contact the HR Service Center to report a Dependents death.  A death   certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  To file a claim, see of this SPD.
Payment.
 
certified
Claims Procedures Appendix
Funding
 
Employees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any dividends declared for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
 
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that is allowed by the U.S. Department of Labor pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 96-62 and 29 CFR Part 2570, subpart B. [DOL Final Authorization Number 2001-17E (May 14, 2001)].  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement is not applicable to coverage for Hourly Employees employed by Michigan Operations, or their Dependents.
 
64
 
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO) for Spouses/Domestic Partners Only
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if your Spouse/Domestic Partner has been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80 percent of your Spouse/Domestic Partner Dependent Life Insurance benefits  before your Spouse/Domestic Partners death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, your Spouse/Domestic Partner must be covered for at least $10,000 under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000) of the Spouse/Domestic Partner Dependent Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Filing a Claim
See the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Appealing a Denial of Claim
See the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Fraud Against the Plan
Any Plan Participant who intentionally misrepresents information to the Plan or knowingly misinforms, deceives or misleads the Plan or knowingly withholds relevant information may have his/her coverage cancelled retroactively to the date deemed appropriate by the Plan Administrator.  Further, such Plan Participant may be required to reimburse the Plan for Claims paid by the Plan.  The employer may determine that termination of employment is appropriate and the employer and/or the Plan may choose to pursue civil and/or criminal action.  The Plan Administrator may determine that the Participant is no longer eligible for coverage under the Plan because of his or her actions.
 
65
 
Grievance Procedure
If you want to appeal the denial of a claim for benefits, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under these Plans, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under these Plans, or if you feel that the Plan Administrator has denied you any right you feel that you have under these Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator (listed in the  section of this SPD) in writing within 90 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong (if it was the Plan which did the wrong), or will make a recommendation to the Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.  You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days, unless special circumstances require an extension of time.  The Plan Administrator will give you written notice and reason for the extension.   In no event should the decision take longer than 120 days after receipt of your appeal.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit
Your Legal Rights
When you are a participant in the Company-Paid, Employee-Paid or Dependent Life Insurance Plans, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This law requires that all Plan participants must be able to:
In addition to creating rights for you and all other Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties on the people who are responsible for operating an employee benefit plan.  The people who operate the Plans, called fiduciaries of the Plans, have a duty to act prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and beneficiaries.
No one, including your employer or any other person, may discharge you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit, or from exercising your rights under ERISA. If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the legal rights described above.  For instance, if you request materials from one of the Plans and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court.  In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Administrator.  If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you must file a written appeal within the time period specified in the Plans Claims Procedures.  Failure to comply with the Plans claims procedures may significantly jeopardize your rights to benefits.  If you are not satisfied with the final appellate decision, you may file suit in Federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If you are successful the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees.  If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Claims Administrators or the Plan Administrators final written decision (or the deadline the Claims Administrator or Plan Administrator had to notify you of a decision).  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.  
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse one of the Plans money, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the
 
66
 
alleged misuse.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under this benefit plan, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under any of the Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator listed in the  section of this SPD in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong, if it was the Plan which did the wrong, or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in Federal court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you have any questions about the Program, you should contact the Plan Administrator.  If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest Office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
Welfare Benefits
Welfare benefits, such as the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and Dependent Life Insurance Plan, are not required to be guaranteed by a government agency.
Amendment, Modification, or Termination of Plan
The President, Chief Financial Officer or the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources of the Company, each acting individually, or his or her respective delegate, may amend, modify or terminate The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.  Such amendments or modifications may not result in Company expenditures in excess of $20 million per year.  Amendments that result in Company expenditures in excess of $20 million per year must be approved by the Board of Directors.   Certain modifications or amendments of the Programs which the Company deems necessary or appropriate to conform the Plan to, or satisfy the conditions of, any law, governmental regulation or ruling, and to permit the respective Program to meet the requirements of the Code may be made retroactively if necessary.
Procedure for Amendment, Modification, or Termination of Plan
Any amendment of, modification to, or termination of the Programs, must be reviewed by an attorney in the Companys Legal Department and the Plan Administrator before it is adopted by the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources or his or her delegate.
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plans are Terminated
The Company may terminate any of the Programs or Plans at any time at its sole discretion.   If the Company terminates a Plan, the assets of the Plan, if any, shall not be used by the Company, but may be used in any of the following ways:
 
67
 
Class Action Lawsuits
Legal actions against the Programs must be filed in federal court.  Class action lawsuits must be filed either 1) in the jurisdiction in which the applicable Program is administered (Michigan) or 2) the jurisdiction where the largest number of putative members of the class action reside.  This provision does not waive the requirement to exhaust administrative remedies before the filing of a lawsuit.
For More Information
If you have questions, phone the HR Service Center at (989) 638-8757 or 877-623-8079. They can provide more details about this benefit Plan.
Important Note
This booklet is the summary plan description (SPD) for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan and The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid  and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  However, it is not all-inclusive and it is not intended to take the place of each Plans legal documents.  In case of conflict between this SPD and the applicable Plan Document, the applicable Plan Document will govern.
The Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator are Plan fiduciaries. The Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe all of the provisions of the Plans for all purposes except to make Claims for Plan Benefits determinations, which discretion is reserved for the Claims Administrator.  The Plan Administrators interpretations shall be final, conclusive and binding.  The Plan Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact for all purposes except to make Claim for Plan Benefits determinations, which discretion is reserved for the Claims Administrator.  The Plan Administrator has the full authority to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the applicable Plan.  All findings of fact made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding. The Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to decide whether or not it is making a Claim for Plan Benefit determination.  For a detailed description of the Plan Administrators authority, see the applicable Plan Document.
For the purpose of making Claim for Plan Benefits determinations, the Claims Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plans, and such interpretation shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For the purpose of making Claim for Plan Benefits determinations, the Claims Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact and to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the Plans.  All findings of fact made by the Claims Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For a detailed description of the Claims Administrators authority, see the applicable Plan Document.
The Company reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Programs and Plans at any time at its sole discretion.  The procedures for amending each of the Plans are contained in the applicable Plan Document.
The Plan Documents can be made available for your review upon written request to the Plan Administrator (listed in the section of this Summary Plan Description).
ERISA
Information
This Summary Plan Description (SPD) and the benefits described do not constitute a contract of employment. Your employer retains the right to terminate your employment or otherwise deal with your employment as if this SPD and the Plans had never existed.
 
68
 
 
69
 
 
 
 
 
 
70
 
 
 
71
 
You Must File a Claim in Accordance with These Claims Procedures
A Claim is a request by a claimant for a or an .  There are two kinds of Claims:
written
Plan benefit
Eligibility Determination
A is a request for benefits covered under the Plan.
Claim for Plan Benefits
An is a kind of Claim.  It is a request for a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant or covered Dependent under the Plan.
Eligibility Determination
You must follow the claims procedures for either , whichever applies to your situation.   See the applicable sections below entitled and
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
or CLAIMS FOR AN ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
CLAIMS FOR ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.
Who Will Decide Whether to Approve or Deny My Claim?
The Dow Chemical Company will approve or deny a Claim for an Eligibility Determination.  The initial determination is made by the U.S. Benefits Center.  If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by the Global Benefits Director.
MetLife will approve or deny a Claim for Plan Benefits.  MetLife is the Claims Administrator for both the initial determination and (if there is an appeal), the appellate determination.
An Authorized Representative May Act on Your Behalf
An Authorized Representative may submit a Claim on behalf of a Plan Participant.  The Plan will recognize a person as a Plan Participants Authorized Representative if such person submits a notarized document signed by the Participant stating that the Authorized Representative is authorized to act on behalf of such Participant.  A court order stating that a person is authorized to submit Claims on behalf of a Participant will also be recognized by the Plan.
Authority of the Administrators and Your Rights Under ERISA
The Administrators have the full, complete, and final discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact in order to carry out their respective Claims decision-making responsibilities.
Interpretations and claims decisions by the Administrators are final and binding on Participants.   If you are not satisfied with an Administrators final appellate decision, you may file a civil action against the Plan under s. 502 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) in a federal court.  
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Administrators final written decision.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for Plan benefits, the claimant must complete a MetLife claims form.  Call the HR Service Center at 1-877/623-8079 to obtain a form.  (Retirees should call the Retiree Service Center to obtain a form at 1-800/344-0661).   In addition, you must attach a death certificate (must be certified by the government authority, as exhibited by a raised seal on the certificate).  You may request assistance from the U.S. Benefits Center (1-989/636-9556) if you need help completing the MetLife claims form.
certified
 
72
 
Once you have completed the MetLife claims form, you must send it and the death certificate to:
certified
U.S. Benefits Center
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
The U.S. Benefits Center will review and sign your completed MetLife claims form and forward the form and death certificate to:
certified
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims
P.O. Box 6115
Utica, NY  13504-6115
CLAIMS FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for , the Claims must be in writing and contain the following information:
Eligibility Determinations
must be filed with:
Claims for Eligibility Determinations
U.S. Benefits Center
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
                (Eligibility Determination)
INITIAL DETERMINATIONS
If you submit a or a to the applicable  Administrator, the applicable Administrator will review your Claim and notify you of its decision to approve or deny your Claim.  Such notification will be provided to you in writing within a reasonable period, not to exceed 90 days of the date you submitted your claim; except that under special circumstances, the Administrator may have up to an additional 90 days to provide you such written notification.  If the Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination. If the applicable Administrator denies the Claim, the written notification of the Claims decision will state the reason(s) why the Claim was denied and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s). If the Claim was denied because you did not file a complete Claim or because the Administrator needed additional information, the Claims decision will state that as the reason for denying the Claim and will explain why such information was necessary.
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
 
73
 
APPEALING THE INITIAL DETERMINATION
If the applicable Administrator has denied your or , you may appeal the decision.  If you appeal the Administrators decision, you must do so in writing within 60 days of receipt of the Administrators determination, assuming that there are no extenuating circumstances, as determined by the applicable Administrator.  Your written appeal must include the following information:
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
  Name of Employee
    
  Name of the benefit Plan
    
   Reference to the Initial Determination
   
    Explain reason why you are appealing the Initial Determination
  
Send appeals of to:
Eligibility Determinations
Global Benefits Director
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
    (Appeal of Eligibility Determination)
Send appeals of benefit denials to:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims  The Dow Chemical Company
Oneida County Industrial Park
Utica, NY  13504-6115
Attention: Claims Administrator
    (Appellate Review)
You may submit any additional information to the applicable Administrator when you submit your request for appeal.  You may also request that the Administrator provide you copies of documents, records and other information that is relevant to your Claim, as determined by the applicable Administrator under applicable federal regulations.  Your request must be in writing.  Such information will be provided at no cost to you.
After the applicable Administrator receives your written request to appeal the initial determination, the Administrator will review your Claim.  Deference will not be given to the initial adverse decision, and the appellate reviewer will look at the Claim anew.  The person who will review your appeal will not be the same person as the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  In addition, the person who is reviewing the appeal will not be a subordinate who reports to the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  The Administrator will notify you in writing of its final decision.  Such notification will be provided within a reasonable period, not to exceed 60 days of the written request for appellate review, except that under special circumstances, the Administrator may have up to an additional 60 days to provide written notification of the final decision.  If the Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination.  If the Administrator determines that it does not have sufficient information to make a decision on the Claim prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, it will notify you.  It will describe any additional material or information necessary to submit to the Plan, and provide you with the deadline for submitting such information.  The initial 60 day time period for the Administrator to make a final written decision, plus the 60 day extension period (if applicable) are tolled from the date the notification of insufficiency is sent to you until the date on which it receives your response.  (Tolled means the clock or time is stopped or suspended.  In other words, the deadline for the Administrator to make its decision is put on hold until it receives the requested information).  The tolling period ends when the Administrator receives your response, regardless of the adequacy of your response.
If the Administrator has determined to that its final decision is to deny your Claim, the written notification of the decision will state the reason(s) for the denial and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s).
 
74
 
See Plan Document for additional definitions.  A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
or means that you are performing all of the usual and customary duties of your job with the Participating Employer on a Full Time or Less-Than Full Time basis.  This must be done at:
Actively at Work
Active Work
You will be deemed to be Actively at Work during weekends or Participating Employer approved vacations, holidays or business closures if you were Actively at Work on the last scheduled work day preceding such time off.
means either the Plan Administrator or the Claims Administrator.
"Administrator"
or means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Hourly Employee and Bargained-for Employee have the same meaning.
"Bargained-for Individual"
Bargained-for Employee
means a written request by a claimant for a plan benefit or an Eligibility Determination that contains at a minimum, the information described in the Claims Procedures Appendix of the applicable SPD.
"Claim"
means a Claim requesting a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant under a Plan.
"Claim for an Eligibility Determination"
means a Claim requesting that the Plan pay for benefits covered under a Plan.
"Claim for a Plan Benefit"
" means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company with whom the Company has contracted to perform certain services under the Program.
"Claims Administrator
means the Internal Revenue code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation which amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
"Code"
means The Dow Chemical Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware.
"Company"
means a person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
Domestic Partner
means two people claiming to be "domestic partners" who meet all of the following requirements of paragraph A, or the requirements of paragraph B:
Domestic Partnership
A.
 
75
 
B.
means a Participating Employer or collectively, the Participating Employers, as determined by the context of the sentence in which it is used, as such is interpreted by the Plan Administrator or his delegee.
"Dow"
meansa person who:
Employee
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. Payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
"ERISA"
Employee means an Employee who has been classified by a Participating Employer as having full-time status.
Full-Time
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Hourly Employee and Bargained-for Employee have the same meaning.
"Hourly Employee"
Employee means an Employee who has been approved by a Participating Employer to work 20 to 39 hours per week and is classified by a Participating Employer as having Less-Than-Full-Time Status.
Less-Than-Full-Time
means that a Participating Employer has made a determination that an Employee is permanently relocated to a particular country, and the Employee has accepted such determination.  For example, a Malaysian national is Localized to the U.S. when a Participating Employer has determined that such Employee is permanently relocated to the U.S., and such Employee has accepted such determination.
Localized
or means a legally valid marriage between a man and a woman recognized by the state in which the man and the woman reside.
"Married"
"Marriage"
means the Company or any other corporation or business entity the Company authorizes to participate in the Program with respect to its Employees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, a Participating Employer is only a Participating Employer while it is a member of the Controlled Group. If the entity ceases to be a member of the Controlled Group, then the entity ceases to be a Participating Employer on the date it is no longer a member of the Controlled Group. Controlled Group is with respect to The Dow Chemical Company, and means a controlled group
"Participating Employer"
 
76
 
of corporations or entities within the meaning of section 414(b) or section 414(c) of the Code.
means either the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (for Salaried and Certain Bargained for Employees), which is a component of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507); or the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan or the Dependent Life Insurance Plan, which are components of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515); whichever the case may be.
Plan
means the Company or such person or committee as may be appointed from time to time by the Company to serve at its pleasure.
"Plan Administrator"
means either the plan document for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program, whichever the case may be.
"Plan Document"
means either The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507) or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515), whichever the case may be.
"Program"
means the 12-consecutive-month period ending each December 31.
"Program Year"
  is an Employee who is classified by the Employer as regular.
Regular Employee
means when an active Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service terminates employment with a Participating Employer who is also a Retiree.
"Retire" or "Retirement"
means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer and is eligible to receive a pension under the Dow Employees Pension Plan and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding Retirement.  An Employee who is receiving, or has received a benefit, under the 1993 Special Separation Payment Plan who is 50 or older at the time he leaves active employment with Dow, regardless of years of Service, is also a "Retiree".
"Retiree"
also means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer, terminated employment with the Participating Employer on or after February 6, 2003, is eligible to receive a pension under the terms of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding termination of employment with the Participating Employer.
Retiree
also means an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, terminated employment with Dow Chemical Canada Inc. on or after October 1, 2003 at age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service, is eligible to receive a pension from the pension plan sponsored by Dow Chemical Canada Inc., and signed a waiver of all his rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between himself and The Dow Chemical Company.
Retiree
means the participating employer as defined under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan.
Rohm and Haas Company
means an individual who is not represented by a collective bargaining unit.
"Salaried"
means:
Service
With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, "Service" means either Eligibility Service" or "Credited Service" recognized under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, whichever is greater.   With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, Service means Eligibility Service or Credited Service recognized under the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, whichever is greater.
means a person who is Married to the Employee.
"Spouse"
means the Summary Plan Description.
SPD
 
77
 

 
 
 
 
Copies of updated SPDs can be found at the Dow Intranet address above, or by requesting a copy from the Retiree Service Center, Employee Development Center, Midland, MI 48674, telephone 800-344-0661 or 989-636-0977.  Summaries of modifications may also be published from time to time in DowFriends or by separate letter.
 
78
 
Overview
Three life insurance benefit plans are available to eligible Retirees and their families:  Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan (hereafter collectively referred to as the Plans or individually as Plan).   This is the Summary Plan Description (SPD) for these plans.  Different eligibility and coverage levels will apply depending on whether you are a Retired Salaried Employee or a Retired Hourly Employee.  Also, there are differences among the various Hourly groups.   Special rules also apply to Retired Split Dollar Participants, Post-65 Executive Life Participants and Disability Retirees.
Chapter One applies to The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507).  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
Chapter Two applies to The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.   Premiums are paid by the Retiree. It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by MetLife.
Chapter Three applies to The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by MetLife.  The premium is paid by the Retiree.  Coverage may be provided for eligible Dependents
Please review the information in this SPD carefully to become familiar with your benefit plans, guidelines, rights and responsibilities.  Words that are capitalized are either defined in this SPD or in the Plan Documents for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (for the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan) and The Dow Chemical Company Employee Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  The Plan Documents include the applicable insurance policies and insurance certificates.  The Plan Documents are available upon request.  Contact the Plan Administrator listed in the section.
ERISA Information
References to Dow and Participating Employers are used interchangeably, and both refer collectively to The Dow Chemical Company and the subsidiaries and affiliates of The Dow Chemical Company that are authorized to participate in the Plans.  The Company means The Dow Chemical Company.
 
The Company reserves the right to amend, modify and terminate the Programs and the Plans at any time at its sole discretion.
 
79
 
 
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program were merged into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan:  Michigan Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; Texas Operations Hourly Basic Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for Retirees Who Retired Between March 1, 1988 and January 1, 1999; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Waterloo); and ANGUS Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Effective December 31, 2005, the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan was terminated, and the retiree company-paid life insurance portion of that plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to January 1, 2006.
The Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter One as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 applies to Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Section 3 applies to Retired Texas Operations Hourly Employees who retired prior to January 1, 2003
Section 4 applies to Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 5 applies to Retired Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 6 applies to Disability Retirees
Section 7 applies to Retired Split Dollar Participants
Section 8 applies to Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
Section 9 applies to Certain Union Carbide Retirees who retired prior to February 7, 2003
Section 10 applies to Retired Employees of Dow AgroSciences LLC who retired prior to January 1, 2006
Section 11 applies to post January 22, 2007 acquisition new hires
Section 12 through to the remaining sections of Chapter One apply to all persons eligible for coverage under the Plan
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter One of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
1
 
80
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who, on the day preceding your Retirement, were enrolled for coverage under a Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan offered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .   In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Enrollment
Upon Retirement, you may complete an enrollment form, with coverage effective immediately.  If you want to be covered under Plan Option I at age 65, you must complete an enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in automatic enrollment in pre-age 65 coverage and Plan Option II at age 65
  At a later date, you may decrease your coverage option by switching from Plan Option I to Plan Option II; however, you will not be permitted to upgrade your coverage by switching from Plan Option II to Plan Option I, even with a statement of health form.
Note:
You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  
If you waive coverage, you waive coverage permanently.  You may not re-enroll in this Plan at any time in the future.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Coverage Prior to Age 65
Except for eligible Retirees of Americas Styrenics, until you reach age 65, you will be provided with coverage equal to one times (1x) your base annual salary at time of Retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, plus $5000.   Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
3
If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements for this Plan at the time you left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 4 below.
 
If a BPSC Employee had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, but was younger than age 50 as of that date, his age after he terminates employment with BPSC will be recognized by the Program.  Therefore, he may age in to eligibility for the Program by working until age 50 or after, but his Service will not grow beyond what it was as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his transfer or assignment to the BPSC, whichever is later.
2
the later of
 
The applicable salary if you work for Americas Styrenics is not your Americas Styrenics salary at time of retirement from Americas Styrenics.  The applicable salary is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  For example, lets assume that you worked for The Dow Chemical Company immediately prior to beginning employment with Americas Styrenics, and your base annual salary was $45,000 at The Dow Chemical Company at that time.  Lets also assume that at the time you leave Americas Styrenics, your base annual salary is $50,000.  The salary that the Plan will use to determine your coverage will be the $45,000 base annual salary at the time you left The Dow Chemical Company.
3
 
81
 
Coverage Age 65 or older
There are two plan options available to Retirees age 65 and older.  Plan Option I requires a monthly Retiree contribution.  Currently, Plan Option II is provided at no cost to you.   If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements for this Plan at the time your left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 3 below.
Beginning on the first of the month following your 65th birthday, your life insurance will equal 1x your base annual salary at time of Retirement, rounded up to the next $1,000.  At age 66, your coverage amount is reduced 20 percent (of the original amount) each year until age 68.  At age 68 and beyond, your coverage amount is equal to one-half your base
Plan Option I:
4
annual salary, with minimum coverage of $10,000.  The following chart summarizes the insurance coverage for Retirees electing Plan Option I:
Beginning on the first of the month following your 65th birthday, your life insurance will equal 1x your base annual salary, rounded up to the next $1,000.  At age 66, your coverage amount is reduced 20 percent (of the original amount) each year until you reach age 70.  At age 70 and beyond, Dow will provide coverage of $5,000.  The following chart summarizes the insurance coverage for Retirees electing Plan Option II.
Plan Option II:
Cost
Prior to Age 65
Currently, Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Age 65 and Older
You share the cost of coverage with Dow.  Your cost is based on a rate per $1,000 of 1X coverage and is subject to change based on plan experience.  Your premium payment is deducted, post-tax, from your monthly pension check.  Premiums may vary from year to year.  Premium information is communicated in the annual U.S. Retiree Benefits Enrollment Booklet, and periodically in DowFriends .  If you elect not to have your premium deducted from your pension check, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill. .
Plan Option I:
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be canceled
 
  See footnote 3 above.
4
  See footnote 3 above.
5
  See footnote 3 above.
6
  See footnote 3 above.
7
  See footnote 3 above.
8
  See footnote 3 above.
9
See footnote 3 above.
10
See footnote 3 above.
11
See footnote 3 above.
12
See footnote 3 above.
13
 
82
 
Currently, coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Plan Option II:
Section 2.  Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Eligibility
If your were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage.  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and you are a Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employee who Retired on or after June 1, 1990 but before January 1, 2008, and you were covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below under 
Coverage Amounts for
Eligible
Midland/Ludington Hourly Retirees.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Midland/Ludington Hourly Retirees
Prior to Age 65
Until you reach age 65, you will be provided with coverage equal to the amount of coverage you had as an active Hourly Employee under the Company-Paid Life Insurance on the day preceding the date of your Retirement.
Age 65 or older
On or after your 65th birthday, your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefits will be determined by applying the appropriate percentage from the following table to the amount of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect the date preceding your 65th birthday, with a minimum of $5,000.
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section  3.  Retired Texas Operations Employees
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired prior to January 1, 2003, and had Non-Contributory coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for $10,000 of coverage until age 65.  Coverage is reduced to $5000 at age 65.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 4.  Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees
If you retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. on or after March 1, 1988,through December 31, 1999, at age 62 or older and were represented while an active employee by the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO Local Union #7110, a bargaining unit of Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Waterloo, NY facility,you have $5000 of coverage.    Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
 
83
 
Section 5.  Retired Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Employees
If you Retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. between March 1, 1988, and January 1, 1999, and had five or more years of service with W.R. Grace Company and/or Hampshire Chemical Corp. and were represented while an active employee by either the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (AFL-CIO) Local Lodge 727 (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Owensboro, Kentucky facility) or the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW, Local No. 952-C (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Nashua, New Hampshire facility), you are eligible for the coverage described below in
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Retirees.
.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Retirees
If you are an eligible Retiree who was represented by the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (AFL-CIO) Local Lodge 727 (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Owensboro, Kentucky facility) while you were an active Employee, your coverage is $6000.
If you are an eligible Retiree who was represented by the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW, Local No. 952-C (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Nashua, New Hampshire facility) while you were an active Employee, your coverage is $5000.
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage
Section 6.  Disability Retirees
If your were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage..  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and if you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and are not a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2003, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Company-Paid Life and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plans on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .  If you are receiving disability retirement payments from the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP) and retired on or after February 7, 2003, you are also eligible for the coverage described below in
14
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees.
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2003 receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage as described below in .
Coverage Amounts for Texas Operations Hourly Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
.  If you are a Retiree who is receiving a disability retirement benefit from DEPP or UCEPP, as defined under DEPP or UCEPP, respectively, you will be provided with Retiree Company-Paid Life coverage equal to the coverage you had as an active employee.  Until age 65, additional coverage equal to 1/2 x or 1x your base annual pay at Retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, is provided if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of Employee-Paid Life coverage as an active employee.  Coverage is contingent on you continuing to meet the requirements to receive disability retirement benefits from DEPP or UCEPP, whichever is applicable.  If your DEPP disability retirement effective date is (or your UCEPP disability retirement effective date is on or after February 7, 2003 and prior to
Pre-65 coverage
15
prior to January 1, 2006
 
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, and did not become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan  or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire-date will be recognized by the Plan.
14
 
See footnote 3 above.
15
 
84
 
January 1, 2006), this additional coverage is currently provided at no cost to you. 
. If you are: (1) a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP, and (2) your DEPP disability retirement effective date is (or your UCEPP disability retirement effective date is on or after  February 7, 2003 and prior to January 1, 2006), and (3) you are not a Texas Operations Hourly Employee who began receiving disability retirement from DEPP prior to January 1, 2003, and (4) you were covered under the Dow Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, then you are covered under Plan Option I if you enrolled for Option I at time of Retirement.  Coverage is contingent on you continuing to meet the requirements to receive disability retirement benefits from DEPP or UCEPP.  Currently, this coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Age 65 and older
prior to January 1, 2006
Coverage Amounts for Texas Operations Hourly Disability Retirees
Retired Prior to January 1, 1997
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 1997 receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage equal to the amount you had as an active employee under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan was provided until the first of the month following your 65 birthday.
th
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If prior to age 65 your coverage amount was equal to or greater than $30,000, coverage will be $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of coverage is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
Retired on or after January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2002
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired on or after January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2002, and are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage was provided in increments of $10,000, subject to a minimum of $10,000 and a maximum of either $60,000, or one-half the amount of Optional Contributory coverage in effect on the day preceding Retirement, whichever is less. Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If prior to age 65, your coverage amount was equal to or greater than $30,000 coverage will be $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of covearge is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68
th
 
85
 
of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
 
 
Section 7.  Retired Split Dollar Participants
A Retired Split Dollar Participant is eligible for the coverage described below in .  A Retired Split Dollar Participant is defined as a person who meets the requirements of one of the following:
Coverage Amount for Eligible Split Dollar Retirees
 
86
 
 
Enrollment
Retired Split Dollar Participants who were active Employees at the time their split dollar agreement was terminated, are required to submit an enrollment form at the time they Retire.  Failure to return the form within 31 days of Retirement will result in automatic enrollment at the same coverage level you had as an active Employee under Company-Paid Life Insurance (1x coverage).
Coverage Amount for Eligible Split Dollar Retirees
Except for a person described in Section 7(vii), a Retired Split Dollar Participant has 1 times (1x) his or her final annual salary at the time of Retirement, which will continue until death.  However, if you elect to waive this special 1x coverage, you will not be allowed to re-enroll in the future.  With respect to a person described in Section 7 (vii),  a Retired Split Dollar Participant has an amount of coverage equal to 1x, as defined in Section 7 (vii).
16
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 8.  Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
A Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participant is a person who was notified prior to 1989 of their eligibility for Post-65 Executive Life Insurance, who subsequently retired and completed a Post-65 Executive Life Insurance election form, and did not later enroll in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan.
Enrollment
Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Coverage is closed to new enrollments.
Coverage Amount for Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
Effective with their 65 birthday, a Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participant has coverage equal to two times (2x) their final pay up to a maximum of two million dollars.  This coverage will continue until death, as long as the required premiums are paid.
th
Cost
Currently, the cost of this coverage is shared by the Retiree and the Company.  The Retirees contribution, which is based on 1x of coverage is currently $1.62 per thousand.  Premiums are subject to change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
End of Coverage
You will retain a one-time option to discontinue coverage under this program and obtain coverage applicable to a Retiree of like age under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan described under Section 1.  However, there will be no refund of premiums paid under the Post-65 Executive Life Insurance program.
Section 9.  Retired Union Carbide Employees
If you Retired prior to February 7, 2003, you are covered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Union Carbide Subsidiary Basic Life Insurance Plan.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
Section 10.  Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees
If you retired prior to January 1, 2006 under the Dow AgroSciences Pension Plan, you are eligible for coverage equal to one times (1x) your  annual base salary at time of retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, until you reach age 66.  At age 66,
 
See footnote 3 above.
16
 
87
 
coverage will decrease 20% each year until you either reach age 70 or until the coverage amount is reduced to $10,000, whichever occurs first.
Enrollment
Coverage for Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees under this section is closed to new enrollments.
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 11.  General Eligibility Information
Check the Plan Document, which addresses unusual situations, such as mergers and acquisitions, for additional eligible retiree populations.
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  If you waive coverage, you waive all future rights to re-enroll for coverage.
Section 12.  Reporting Imputed Income
Except for Retired Split Dollar Participants and Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants, the Internal Revenue Code allows the cost for the first $50,000 of Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan coverage to be excluded from taxable income.  Any imputed income resulting from your life insurance coverage will be reported to the IRS along with your annual pension income information.
The imputed income is determined based on a Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If you are a retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2008, the cost of your combined Company-Paid Life and Employee-Paid Life in excess of $50,000 is taxable income and is determined based on the Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If your Retiree Company Paid Life coverage is greater than $50,000, and you want to decrease the amount of coverage from 1X to $50,000, you may elect to do so by contacting the Retiree Service Center.  The age 65 and older reduction factors will be applied to the $50,000 amount, instead of the original Retiree Company-Paid Life amount.  Once coverage is reduced, it may not be reinstated.
Section 13.  Naming Your Beneficiary
If you did not register your beneficiary information with MetLife at www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits, or by mailing the appropriate beneficiary form to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center while an active employee, you must do so upon retirement,  MetLife became the record keeper for Retiree Life Insurance beneficiary designations effective June 1, 2008.  
Beneficiary information previously recorded at the DowBenefits Center was not transferred to MetLife.
 
88
 
If you do not name a beneficiary, your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the person you designated under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you do not name a beneficiary and you did not designate a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
               Your Spouse or Domestic Partner; or
               Your children; or
               Your parent(s); or
               Your sibling(s).
If you fail to name a beneficiary and you did not designate a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate. Your failure to designate a beneficiary may delay the payment of funds.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or .  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).  A life event (such as marriage/domestic partnership, divorce/termination of domestic partnership, etc.) may signal a need to change your beneficiary.
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
www.dowfriends.com
Section 14.  Benefit Payment
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  See of this SPD.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 15.  Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated beneft paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced in the future, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Section 16.  Funding
The Plan is funded by an insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
 
89
 
Except for Plan Option I, the Participating Employers currently pay the entire cost of the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   For Plan Option I, the Retiree and  the Participating Employer share the cost.  The insurance carrier underwriting the Plans may combine the experience for the policy with other policies held by Dow.  This means that the costs of these coverages may be determined on a combined basis, and the costs accumulated from year to year.  Favorable experience under one or more coverages in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience on other coverages in the same year or offset unfavorable experience of coverages in prior years.  Policy dividends declared by the insurer for the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan attributable to Dows  premiums are used to reduce Dows cost for the coverage in the same and prior years.
Section 17.  Your Rights
, section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, sectionsection, section, section, section, section
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
, Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
the Companys Right to Amend, Modify and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 18.  Ending Coverage
Your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date  you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan; or
The date you elect to terminate your coverage.
Section 19.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because you elect to terminate your coverage or you are longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife, Inc. The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on:
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your eligible group, you may convert your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
      $2,000.
You must file a conversion application with MetLife and make the required premium payment to MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or decreases.  Contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
 
90
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans were merged into the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance plan (Waterloo); and ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.  Effective December 31, 2005, the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan was terminated, and the optional retiree life insurance portion of that plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to January 1, 2006.  Effective January 1, 2008, the Midland and Ludington Hourly Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to June 1, 1990, and for those who retired on or after June 1, 1990 provided that their hire date was prior to January 1, 2008.  Group Policies 11700-G-09 and 11700-G-67 for the Michigan Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program were merged into 11700-G.
The Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Two as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 applies to Retired Texas Operations Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 3 applies to Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 4 applies to Disability Retirees
Section 5 applies to Retired Split Dollar Participants
Section 6 applies to Certain Union Carbide Retirees who retired prior to February 7, 2003
Section 7 applies to Retired Employees of Dow AgroSciences LLC who retired prior to January 1, 2006
Section 8 applies to Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2008
Section 9 through to the remaining sections of Chapter Two apply to all persons eligible for coverage under the Plan
 
 
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter Two of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
17
 
91
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who is less than age 65 and, on the day preceding your Retirement, you were enrolled for coverage under an Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, you are eligible for the coverage described below in without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  If you were not previously enrolled, completing and submitting a statement of health form is required.  In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.
Optional Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Enrollment
If you were previously enrolled for Employee-Paid Life Insurance as an active Employee, you may complete an enrollment form upon Retirement, with coverage effective immediately under the Retiree Optional Coverage.  You must complete an enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in waiver of your coverage
If you were not previously enrolled, you must complete and submit a statement of health form.  This proof may require a physical examination, at your expense.  MetLife will pay for the fee of a paramedical exam, if requested by MetLife, with no cost to the employee/applicant when a MetLife physician is used.
You may decrease or cancel your coverage at any time by completing a new enrollment form and returning it to the Plan.
If you wish to enroll at a later date or increase your coverage amount, completing and submitting a statement of health form will be required.
Optional Coverage Amounts and Costs for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
You may purchase coverage equal to either 1/2x or 1x your base annual salary at Retirement, rounded up to the next $1,000, if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of coverage as an active employee.  Pre-65 Retiree Optional rates are age-related rates.  Premium information is communicated annually by the Plan Administrator.  Premiums are subject to
19
 
If a BPSC Employee had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, but was younger than age 50 as of that date, the time he worked at the BPSC will not be recognized by the Program to determine whether he is a Retiree under the Program after he terminates employment, but his age will be recognized by the Program.  Therefore, he may age in to eligibility for the Program by working until age 50 or after, but his Service will not grow beyond what it was as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his transfer or assignment to the BPSC, whichever is later.  If a BPSC Employee had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, the BPSC Employee is eligible for coverage upon termination of employment.
18
the later of
the later of
 
The applicable salary if you work for Americas Styrenics is not your Americas Styrenics salary at time of retirement from Americas Styrenics.  The applicable salary is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  For example, lets assume that you worked for The Dow Chemical Company immediately prior to beginning employment with Americas Styrenics, and your base annual salary was $45,000 at The Dow Chemical Company at that time.  Lets also assume that at the time you leave Americas Styrenics, your base annual salary is $50,000.  The salary that the Plan will use to determine your coverage will be the $45,000 base annual salary at the time you left The Dow Chemical Company.
19
 
92
 
change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
If you were previously enrolled for a lesser amount, completing and submitting a statement of health form will be required.  In any case, the maximum coverage available is 1x, rounded up to the next $1,000.
If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements of the Plan at the time you left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 21 below.
End of Coverage
Coverage ends at the end of the month in which you reach age 65.  Coverage ends earlier than age 65 if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section  2.  Retired Texas Operations Employees
Retired on or after October 1, 1992 but prior to January 1, 2003
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired on or after October 1, 1992 but prior to January 1, 2003, and were enrolled on the day preceding their Retirement in the Optional Life Insurance Plan of The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for the coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage could be purchased in increments of $10,000, subject to a minimum of $10,000 and a maximum of either $60,000, or one-half the amount of Optional Contributory coverage you had in effect on the day preceding your Retirement, whichever is less. Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If you carried an amount equal to or greater than $30,000 prior to age 65 you had the option to purchase $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
 
Your premium for Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on the amount of coverage you select. Your premiums are deducted post-tax from your monthly pension check. Premiums are subject to change. Premium changes are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Retired Prior to October 1, 1992
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired prior to October 1, 1992, and were enrolled, on the day preceding their Retirement, in the Optional Life Insurance Plan of The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for the coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage could be purchased for half the amount of coverage you had as an active Employee under the Optional Contributory plan, up to $25,000 until age 65.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
 
93
 
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If you carried an amount equal to or greater than $30,000 prior to age 65, you had the option to purchase $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
If you carried an amount equal to $20,000 prior to age 65 you had the option to purchase $20,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
Your premium for Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on the amount of coverage you select. Your premiums are deducted post-tax from your monthly pension check. Premiums are subject to change. Premium changes are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), formerly known as the Dow Employee Retirement Plan (ERP), you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Section 3.  Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees
If you retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. on or after March 1, 1988,through December 31, 1999, at age 55 or older and were represented while an active employee by the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO Local Union #7110, a bargaining unit of Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Waterloo, NY facility, and you were enrolled in Hampshire Chemical Corp. supplemental employee paid life insurance coverage on the day preceding your retirement, you are eligible for the amount of optional life insurance you had on the day preceding your retirement, ie., $2500, $5000, $7500, or $13,000.  You are required to pay the premiums.  Premiums are subject to change.  Changes to premiums are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from your pension payments, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Section 4.  Disability Retirees
If you were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage.  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and if you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), as defined under DEPP, and you are not a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .
20
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
 
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire-date will be recognized by the Plan.
20
 
94
 
If you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP), as defined under UCEPP, on or after February 7, 2003, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are also eligible for the coverage described below in .
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
.
Pre-65 coverage
  Effective January 1, 2006, if you are a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP, and your disability retirement effective date is on or after January 1, 2006, your eligibility, coverage amounts and costs are the same as Retirees who are not receiving a disability retirement benefit under DEPP or UCEPP.  See Chapter Two, Section 1 of this SPD.
Disability retirement on or after January 1, 2006:
:  See Chapter One, Section 6 of this SPD.
Disability retirement prior to January 1, 2006
.
Age 65 and older
   Effective January 1, 2006, if you are a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP and your disability retirement effective date is on or after January 1, 2006, your eligibility, coverage amounts and costs are the same as Retirees who are not receiving a disability retirement under DEPP or UCEPP.
Disability retirement on or after January 1, 2006:
:  See Chapter One, Section 6 of this SPD.
Disability retirement prior to January 1, 2006
Section 5.  Retired Split Dollar Participants
Except for those described in Section 7 (vii)  of Chapter One: Company Paid Life Insurance Plan in this SPD,  Retired Split Dollar Participants are eligible for 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage if they elected to purchase the 1x Employee-paid or Retiree-paid split dollar replacement coverage (1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage) at the time it was offered to them when their split dollar agreements were terminated, and they continue to pay the premiums for that coverage.  For the definition of Retired Split Dollar Participants see Chapter One of this SPD, Section 7 entitled .  Retired Split Dollar Participants described in Section 7 (vii) of Chapter One are not eligible for coverage under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.
Retired Split Dollar Participants
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Enrollment
If you are a Retired Split Dollar Participant who was an active Employee at the time your split dollar agreement was terminated, and you are paying premiums for the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage, you are required to submit an enrollment form at the time you Retire if you wish to continue the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage as a Retiree.    If you waived the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage at the time your split dollar agreement was terminated, or if such coverage was waived or cancelled after your split dollar agreement was terminated, you may not subsequently enroll for such coverage at any time.
Failure to return the form within 31 days of  your Retirement will result in automatic enrollment in the
1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage.
Costs
You pay the premium for coverage.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience. Premiums are subject to change. If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
 
95
 
Coverage Levels
Coverage is 1x of your final annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000.
21
End of Coverage
1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage ends if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section 6.  Retired Union Carbide Employees
If you Retired prior to February 7, 2003, you are covered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Union Carbide Subsidiary Basic Life Insurance Plan.  You are not eligible for coverage under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.
Section 7.  Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees
If you Retired prior to January 1, 2006 under the Dow AgroSciences Pension Plan and if you were enrolled in supplemental coverage (1x, 2x, 3x, or 4x) under the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan as an active Employee on the day preceding your retirement, you may purchase supplemental life insurance coverage equal to one times your annual base salary at the time of your Retirement.    You are required to pay the premiums.  Premiums are age-related and subject to change.  Changes to premiums are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from your pension, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Coverage ends at the end of the month in which you reach age 65.  Coverage ends earlier than age 65 if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section 8.  Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Eligibility
If you are a Retired Midland or Ludington Hourly Employee who is less than 65 years of age and you Retired on or after June 1, 1990, but prior to January 1, 2008, you are eligible for Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance coverage.  If you were enrolled in the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for continued coverage under this Plan until you reach age 65.  If you were not previously enrolled, you must complete and submit a statement of health form to participate in the Plan.
Coverage Levels
At Retirement, you may purchase coverage equal to either 1/2X, 1X or 1 1/2X your base annual hourly rate on the previous December 1, rounded up to the next $1,000, if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of coverage as an active employee.
If you were previously enrolled for a lesser amount, a statement of health form will be required.  In any case, the maximum coverage available is 1 1/2X of your base annual hourly rate on the previous December 1, rounded up to the next $1,000.
Cost
Your premium for Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on your age and the amount of coverage you select.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience.
Your premiums are deducted post tax from your monthly pension check.  Premiums are subject to change.  Premium changes are published in open enrollment materials and DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), formerly known as the Dow Employee Retirement Plan (ERP), you must pay your
 
.
21
See footnote 19
 
96
 
premium within 31 days of your bill.  .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be canceled
If you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, as defined under the Dow Employees Pension Plan, and your disability retirement effective date was before January 1, 2006, and you were enrolled in Employee Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement,  your premium is paid by Dow.
Section 9.  General Eligibility Information
Check the Plan Document, which addresses unusual situations, such as mergers and acquisitions, for additional eligible retiree populations.
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 10.  Naming Your Beneficiary
If you did not register your beneficiary information with MetLife at www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits, or by mailing the appropriate beneficiary form to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center while an active employee, you must do so upon retirement.    MetLife became the record keeper for Retiree Life Insurance beneficiary designations effective June 1, 2008.  
Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center was not transferred to MetLife.
If you do not name a beneficiary, your Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated when you were an active Employee under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not designate a beneficiary under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan, then the Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not name a beneficiary under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, your Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not name a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
If you did not name a beneficiary under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan or  while you were an active employee under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.   Your failure to designate a beneficiary may delay the payment of funds.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or .  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).  A life event (such as Marriage/Domestic Partnership, divorce/termination of Domestic Partnership, etc.) may signal a need to change your beneficiary.
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
www.dowfriends.com
Section 11.  Benefit Payment
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  See of this SPD.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
 
97
 
Section 12.  Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated beneft paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced in the future, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerate Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Section 13.  Funding
The Plan is funded by an insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
Retirees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any future dividends declared for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that has been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in DOL Opinion Letter 97-24A.  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan, and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement does not apply to coverage for Retired Hourly Employees who were employed at Michigan Operations.
Section 14.  Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
, Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate
 
98
 
section, section,   section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
the Plans
 
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 15.  Ending Coverage
 
 
Your Retiree Optional Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid; or
The date you elect to terminate your coverage.
Section 16.  Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
When your retiree optional life insurance coverage under the Plan ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows retirees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the retiree plan rates and the retiree must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife at 1-866-492-6983 if you have any questions or want to apply for Portability.
Section 17.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your retiree optional life insurance coverage under the Plan ends because you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan or you elect to terminate your coverage, you may convert the coverage you lost to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.   The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of life insurance in effect for you under the on the date:
If your coverage under the MetLife group policy ends because Dow cancels its Group Policy with MetLife or Dow amends the eligibility requirements of the Plan to exclude your work group from eligibility for retiree optional life coverage, you may convert to an individual non-term policy rhough MetLife; provided you were  insured under the retiree optional life provisions of the MetLife group policy  for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing group coverage.   The amount you may convert will be limited to the lesser of:
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or decreases.  Contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
 
99
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans were merged into the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan; and ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  Effective January 1, 2008, the Midland and Ludington Hourly Pre-65 Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to June 1, 1990, and for those who retired on or after June 1, 1990 provided that their hire date was prior to January 1, 2008.
The Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Three as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 through to the remaining sections of Chapter Three apply to all persons eligible for coverage under the Plan
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter Two of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
22
 
100
 
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who, on the day preceding Retirement, was enrolled as an active Employee in a Dependent Life Insurance Plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, you are eligible for continued coverage for your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or Dependent children who were covered under the active employee plan.  In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.  If you are a Retired Michigan Hourly Employee you must also have Retired on or after January 1, 1990 in order to be eligible for this Plan.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record is eligible to participate in any dependent life insurance plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, either as a Dow Employee or Retiree, each of you may insure the other but only one of you may enroll for coverage for your dependent children.  Double coverage is not allowed.
See Section 3 entitled for who may be covered as a Dependent.
Dependent Eligibility
Enrollment
If you were previously enrolled for Dependent Life Insurance, complete the Dependent Life Insurance section of the Retiree enrollment form.  Your continuation coverage will be effective immediately.  You must complete the enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in waiver of coverage
If you waive coverage when you Retire, you waive all future rights to participate in the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
Dependent Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record was covered under your Dependent Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you may continue coverage equal to $5,000.
Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record:
  For any Dependent child who was covered under your Dependent Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you may continue coverage equal to $1,000, as long as he or she continues to meet eligibility requirements.
Dependent Children:
Cost
You pay the premium for coverage.  Your premium for Retiree Dependent Life Insurance is based on the option that you select.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience.  Premiums are subject to change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan,  your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within
31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled
 
If a BPSC Employee had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, but was younger than age 50 as of that date, the time he worked at the BPSC will not be recognized by the Program to determine whether he is a Retiree under the Program after he terminates employment, but his age will be recognized by the Program.  Therefore, he may age in to eligibility for the Program by working until age 50 or after, but his Service will not grow beyond what it was as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his transfer or assignment to the BPSC, whichever is later.  If a BPSC Employee had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, the BPSC Employee is eligible for coverage upon termination of employment.
23
the later of
the later of
 
101
 
Section 2.  General Eligibility Information
If you do not meet the above eligibility criteria, check the Plan Document for additional eligible retiree populations.
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 3.  Dependent Eligibility
You may purchase coverage on the life of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or the life of your Dependent child or Dependent children.
Child means your natural child, adopted child or stepchild who is:
 
This term does not include any person who:
The Plan defines a Full-Time Student as a student who is a full-time student at an educational institution at any time during the Plan Year.  The determination as to whether a student is full-time is based upon the number of hours or courses which is considered to be full-time by the educational institution.
Generally, a child is NOT a Dependent if he or she is:
A Dependent Spouse, Domestic Partner, or child is not eligible if he or she resides outside the United States and Canada, or is in the military.
Section 4.  Beneficiary Designation
You are the beneficiary of the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  This cannot be changed.  The benefits will be paid to you if you survive the Dependent.  
If you do not survive your Dependent, MetLife may pay one or more of the following who survive you:
 
102
 
 
If you do not survive your Dependent, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans liability to the extent of such payment.
Section 5.  Benefit Payment
In the event of the death of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child, contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds. See of this SPD.  Your benefit will be paid in a lump sum.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 6.  Funding
Retirees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any future dividends declared for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Section 7.  Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that has been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in DOL Opinion Letter 97-24A.  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan, and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement does not apply to coverage for Retired Hourly Employees who were employed at Michigan Operations.
Section 8.  Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Retiree Dependent Insurance Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section,   section, section, section, section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 9.  End of Coverage
Your Retiree Dependent Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
 
103
 
If You choose to cancel your coverage, you must complete a new enrollment form and return it to the Plan.  If you cancel coverage, you may not re-enroll in the future.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child no longer meets the eligibility requirements of the Plan, you must notify the Plan in order to receive a reduction in your monthly premium.
Section 10.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage because:
their coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife, Inc. without having to prove insurability.  (In the case of minor children, the parent or legal guardian may act on their behalf.)
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan because Dow has cancelled the dependent life coverage under the group policy with MetLife, or Dow has amended the eligibility requirements of the Plan to exclude you or your dependents from eligibility under the Plan, you may convert coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy for your Dependent; provided you have been enrolled in coverage for your Dependent  under the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to the date the MetLife group coverage  for our Dependent ended.  The amount that may be converted is limited to the lesser of:
A conversion application must be filed within 31 days of loss of coverage.  Your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent childs guardian should contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting the coverage.   Once the form has been obtained, he or she should contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than the group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce the cost.
Section 11.  Filing a Claim
See of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 12.  Appealing a Denial of Claim
See of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 13.  Fraud Against the Plan
Any Plan Participant who intentionally misrepresents information to the Plan or knowingly misinforms, deceives or misleads the Plan or knowingly withholds relevant information may have his/her coverage cancelled retroactively to the date deemed appropriate by the Plan Administrator.  Further, such Plan Participant may be required to reimburse the Plan for Claims paid by the Plan.  The employer may determine that termination of employment is appropriate and the employer and/or the Plan may choose to puruse civil and/or criminal action.  The Plan Administrator may determine that the Participant is no longer eligible for coverage under the Plan because of his or her actions.
 
104
 
Section 14.  Grievance Procedure
If you want to appeal the denial of a claim for benefits, see of  this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under these  Plans, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under these  Plans, or if you you feel that the Plan Administrator has denied you any right you feel that you have under these Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator (listed in the  section of this SPD) in writing within 90 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong (if it was the Plan which did the wrong), or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days, unless special circumstances require an extension of time.  (The Plan Administrator will give you written notice and reason for the extension.)  In no event should the decision take longer than 120 days after receipt of your appeal.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
Section 15.  Your Legal Rights
When you are a Participant in the Retiree Company-Paid, Retiree Optional or Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plans, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  This law requires that all Plan Participants must be able to:
In addition to creating rights for you and all other Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties on the people who are responsible for operating an employee benefit plan.  The people who operate the Plans, called fiduciaries of the Plans, have a duty to act prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and beneficiaries.
No one, including your employer or any other person, may discharge you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit, or from exercising your rights under ERISA. If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the legal rights described above.  For instance, if you request materials from one of the Plans and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court.  In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Administrator.  If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you must file a written appeal within the time period specified in the Plans Claims Procedures.  Failure to comply with the Plans claims procedures may significantly jeopardize your rights to benefits.  If you are not satisfied with the final appellate decision, you may file suit in  Federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If you are successful the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees.  If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Claims Administrators or the Plan Administrators final written decision (or the deadline the Claims Administrator or Plan Administrator had to notify you of a decision).  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.  
 
105
 
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse one of the Plans money, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the alleged misuse.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under this benefit plan, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under any of the Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator listed in the ERISA Information section of this SPD in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong, if it was the Plan which did the wrong, or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in Federal court.  
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you have any questions about the Program, you should contact the Plan Administrator.  If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest  Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.  20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
Section 16.  Welfare Benefits
Welfare benefits, such as the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan, are not required to be guaranteed by a government agency.
Section 17.  Amendment, Modification, or Termination of Plan
The President, Chief Financial Officer or the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources of the Company, each acting individually, or his or her respective delegate, may amend, modify or terminate the Plan, including, without limitation, the Summary Plan Description, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Such amendments or modifications may not result in Company expenditures in excess of $20 million per year.  Amendments that result in Company expenditures in excess of $20 million per year must be approved by the Board of Directors.   Certain modifications or amendments of the Plan which the Company deems necessary or appropriate to conform the Plan to, or satisfy the conditions of, any law, governmental regulation or ruling, and to permit the Plan to meet the requirements of the Code may be made retroactively if necessary.  Upon termination or discontinuance of the Plan, all elections and reductions in compensation related to the Plan shall terminate.
  Any amendment of, modification to, or termination of the Plan, must be reviewed by an attorney in the Companys Legal Department and the Plan Administrator before it is adopted by the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources or his or her delegate.
Procedure for Amendment, Modification, or Termination of Plan
.
 
106
 
Section 18.  Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plans are Terminated
The Company may terminate any of the Plans at any time at its sole discretion.   If the Company terminates a Plan, the assets of the Plan, if any, shall not be used by the Company, but may be used in any of the following ways:
Section 19.  Class Action Lawsuits
Legal actions against the Plan must be filed in federal court.  Class action lawsuits must be filed either 1) in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is administered (Michigan) or 2) the jurisdiction where the largest number of putative members of the class action reside.  This provision does not waive the requirement to exhaust administrative remedies before the filing of a lawsuit.
 
 
Section 20.  For More Information
If you have questions,  contact the Retiree Service Center, The Dow Chemical Company, Employee Development Center, Midland, Michigan  48674; Phone (800) 344-0661.
Section 21.  Important Note
This booklet is the summary plan description (SPD) for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  However, it is not all-inclusive and it is not intended to take the place of each Plans legal documents.  In case of conflict between this SPD and the applicable Plan Document, the applicable Plan Document will govern.
The Plan Administrator and the Claims Administrator are Plan fiduciaries.   The Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe all of the provisions of the Plans for all purposes except to make Claims for Plan Benefits determinations, which discretion is reserved for the Claims Administrator, and such interpretation shall be final, conclusive and binding.   The Plan Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact for all purposes except to make Claims for Plan Benefits determinations, which discretion is reserved for the Claims Administrator, and the Plan Administrator has the full authority to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the Plans.  All findings of fact made by the Plan Administrators shall be final, conclusive and binding.  The Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to decide whether or not it is making a Claims for Plan Benefits determination.  For a detailed description of the Plan Administrators authority, see the applicable Plan Document.
For the purpose of making Claims for Plan Benefits determinations, the Claims Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plans, and such interpretation shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For the purpose of making Claims for Plan Benefits determinations, the Claims Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact and to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the Plans.  All findings of fact made by the Claims Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For a detailed description of the Claims Administrators authority, see the applicable Plan Document.
 
107
 
 
 
108
 
 
109
 
 
 
110
 
 
 
111
 
 
 
112
 
You Must File a Claim in Accordance with These Claims Procedures
A  Claim is a request by a claimant for a or an .  There are two kinds of Claims:
written
Plan benefit
Eligibility Determination
A is a request for benefits covered under the Plan.
Claim for Plan Benefits
An is a kind of Claim.  It is a request for a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant or covered Dependent under the Plan.
Eligibility Determination
You must follow the claims procedures for either , whichever applies to your situation.   See applicable sections below entitled and
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
or CLAIMS FOR AN ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
CLAIMS FOR ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.
Who Will Decide Whether to Approve or Deny My Claim?
The Dow Chemical Company will approve or deny a Claim for an Eligibility Determination.  The initial determination is made by the Dow Benefit Center.  If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by the Global Benefits Director.
MetLife will approve or deny a Claim for Plan Benefits.  MetLife is the Claims Administrator for both the initial determination and (if there is an appeal), the appellate determination.
Authority of the Administrators and Your Rights Under ERISA
The Administrators have the full, complete, and final discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact in order to carry out their respective Claims decision-making responsibilities.
 
Interpretations and claims decisions by the Administrators are final and binding on Participants.   If you are not satisfied with an Administrators final appellate decision, you may file a civil action against the Plan under s. 502 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) in a federal court.  
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Administrators final written decision.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
An Authorized Representative May Act on Your Behalf
An Authorized Representative may submit a Claim on behalf of a Plan Participant.  The Plan will recognize a person as a Plan Participants Authorized Representative if such person submits a notarized writing signed by the Participant stating that the Authorized Representative is authorized to act on behalf of such Participant.  A court order stating that a person is authorized to submit Claims on behalf of a Participant will also be recognized by the Plan.
 
113
 
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for Plan benefits, the claimant must call  the Retiree Service Center at (800) 344-0661 to report the death.   The Dow Benefits Center will contact MetLife on your behalf and you will receive the appropriate Claimant Statement forms and instructions directly from MetLife.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife, along with the completed Claimant Statement, to disburse the life insurance proceeds.
CLAIMS FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for , the Claims must be in writing and contain the following information:
Eligibility Determinations
must be filed with:
Claims for Eligibility Determinations
U.S. Benefits Center
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and certain of its subsidiaries. (Eligibility Determination)
INITIAL DETERMINATIONS
If you submit a or a to the applicable  Administrator,  the applicable Administrator will review your Claim and you notify you of its decision to approve or deny your Claim.  Such notification will be provided to you in writing within a reasonable period, not to exceed 90 days of the date you submitted your claim; except that under special circumstances, the Administrator may have up to an additional 90 days to provide you such written notification.  If the Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination. If the applicable Administrator denies the Claim, the written notification of the Claims decision will state the reason(s) why the Claim was denied and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s). If the Claim was denied because you did not file a complete Claim or because the Administrator needed additional information, the Claims decision will state that as the reason for denying the Claim and will explain why such information was necessary.
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
APPEALING THE INITIAL DETERMINATION
If the applicable Administrator has denied your or , you may appeal the decision.  If you appeal the Administrators decision, you must do so in writing within 60 days of receipt of the Administrators determination, assuming that there are no extenuating circumstances, as determined by the applicable Administrator.  Your written appeal must include the following information:
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
 
114
 
Send appeals of to:
Eligibility Determinations
Global Benefits Director
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and
   certain of its subsidiaries. (Appeal of Eligibility Determination)
Send appeals of benefit denials to:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims
Oneida County Industrial Park
Utica, NY  13504-6115
Attention: Claims Administrator for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and
    certain of its subsidiaries. (Appellate Review)
You may submit any additional information to the applicable Administrator when you submit your request for appeal.  You may also request that the Administrator provide you copies of documents, records and other information that is relevant to your Claim, as determined by the applicable Administrator under applicable federal regulations.  Your request must be in writing.  Such information will be provided at no cost to you.
After the applicable Administrator receives your written request to appeal the initial determination, the Administrator will review your Claim.  Deference will not be given to the initial adverse decision, and the appellate reviewer will look at the Claim anew.  The person who will review your appeal will not be the same person as the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  In addition, the person who is reviewing the appeal will not be a subordinate who reports to the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  The Administrator will notify you in writing of its final decision.  Such notification will be provided within a reasonable period, not to exceed 60 days of the written request for appellate review, except that under special circumstances, the Administrator may have up to an additional 60 days to provide written notification of the final decision.  If the Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination.  If the Administrator determines that it does not have sufficient information to make a decision on the Claim prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, it will notify you.  It will describe any additional material or information necessary to submit to the Plan, and provide you with the deadline for submitting such information.  The initial 60 day time period for the Administrator to make a final written decision, plus the 60 day extension period (if applicable) are tolled from the date the notification of insufficiency is sent to you until the date on which it receives your response.  (Tolled means the clock or time is stopped or suspended.  In other words, the deadline for the Administrator to make its decision is put on hold until it receives the requested information).  The tolling period ends when the Administrator receives your response, regardless of the adequacy of your response.
If the Administrator has determined to that its final decision is to deny your Claim, the written notification of the decision will state the reason(s) for the denial and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s).
 
115
 
 
 
See Plan Document for additional definitions.  A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
or means that you are performing all of the usual and customary duties of your job with the Participating Employer on a Full Time or Less-Than Full Time basis.  This must be done at:
Actively at Work
Active Work
You will be deemed to be Actively at Work during weekends or Participating Employer approved vacations, holidays or business closures if you were Actively at Work on the last scheduled work day preceding such time off.
means either the Plan Administrator or the Claims Administrator.
"Administrator"
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Bargained-for Employee and Hourly Employee have the same meaning.
Bargained-for Employee
means a written request by a claimant for a plan benefit or a request by a claimant for an Eligibility Determination that contains at a minimum, the information described in the Claims Procedures Appendix of the applicable SPD.
"Claim"
means a Claim requesting a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant under a Plan.
"Claim for an Eligibility Determination"
means a Claim requesting that the Plan pay for benefits covered under a Plan.
"Claim for a Plan Benefit"
" means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company with whom the Company has contracted to perform certain services under the Program.
"Claims Administrator
means the Internal Revenue code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation which amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
"Code"
means The Dow Chemical Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware.
"Company"
means a person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
Domestic Partner
means two people claiming to be "domestic partners" who meet all of the following requirements of paragraph A, or the requirements of paragraph B:
Domestic Partnership
A.
 
116
 
B.  
means a Participating Employer or collectively, Participating Employers, as determined by the context of the sentence in which it is used, as such is interpreted by the Plan Administrator or his delegee.
"Dow"
meansa person who:
Employee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. Payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
 
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
"ERISA"
Employee means an Employee who has been classified by a Participating Employer as having full-time status.
Full-Time
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Bargained-for Employee and Hourly Employee have the same meaning.
Hourly Employee
Employee means an Employee who has been approved by a Participating Employer to work 20 to 39 hours per week and is classified by a Participating Employer as having Less-Than-Full-Time Status.
 Less-Than-Full-Time
means that a Participating Employer has made a determination that an Employee is permanently relocated to a particular country, and the Employee has accepted such determination.  For example, a Malaysian national is Localized to the U.S. when a Participating Employer has determined that such Employee is permanently relocated to the U.S., and such Employee has accepted such determination.
Localized
or means a legally valid marriage between a man and a woman recognized by the state in which the man and the woman reside.
"Married"
"Marriage"
 
117
 
means the Company or any other corporation or business entity the Company authorizes to participate in the Program with respect to its Employees.
"Participating Employer"
means either the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (for Salaried Retirees and Retirees of Certain Hourly Groups), which is a component of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507); or the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan  or the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan, which are components of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515); whichever the case may be.
Plan
means the Company or such person or committee as may be appointed from time to time by the Company to serve at its pleasure.
"Plan Administrator"
means either the plan document for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program, whichever the case may be.
"Plan Document"
means either The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507) or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515), whichever the case may be.
"Program"
means the 12-consecutive-month period ending each December 31.
"Program Year"
Regular
Employee
A regular  Employee is an Employee who is classified by the Employer as regular.
means when an active Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years  of Service terminates employment with a Participating Employer who is also a Retiree.
"Retire" or "Retirement"
, except as provided below in this paragraph, means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer and is eligible to receive a pension under the Dow Employees Pension Plan and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding Retirement.  An Employee who is receiving, or has received a benefit, under the 1993 Special Separation Payment Plan who is 50 or older at the time he leaves active employment with Dow, regardless of years of Service, is also a "Retiree".  If an Employee worked for the Dow Mid-Michigan Business Process Service Center (BPSC), he must have been age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service as of  the later of December 31, 2009, or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC in order to be a Retiree.  As a BPSC Employee, if he had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009 or the date of his assignment or transfer to the BPSC, whichever is later, but he was younger than age 50 as of that date, his age after he terminates employment with BPSC will be recognized by the Program    Therefore,  he may age in to eligibility for the Program by working until age 50 or after, but her Service will not grow beyond what it was as of December 31, 2009.
"Retiree"
except as provided below in this paragraph, also means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer, terminated employment with Union Carbide Corporation or its subsidiary that is a Participating Employer on or after February 6, 2003, is eligible to receive a pension under the terms of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding termination of employment with the Participating Employer.  If an Employee worked for the Dow Mid-Michigan Business Process Service Center (BPSC), he must have been age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service as of  the later of December 31, 2009, or the date of the assignment or transfer to the BPSC in order to be a Retiree.  As a BPSC Employee, if he had 10 or more years of Service as of December 31, 2009 or the date of his age after he terminates employment with BPSC will be recognized by the Program    Therefore, he may age in to eligibility for the Program by working until age 50 or after, but his Service will not grow beyond what it was as of December 31, 2009.
Retiree,
also means an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, terminated employment with Dow Chemical Canada Inc. on or after October 1, 2003 at age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service, is eligible to receive a pension from the pension plan sponsored by Dow Chemical Canada Inc., and signed a waiver of all his rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between himself and The Dow Chemical Company.
Retiree
means an individual who is not represented by a collective bargaining unit.
"Salaried"
 
118
 
with respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, "Service" means either Eligibility Service" or "Credited Service" recognized under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, whichever is greater.   With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, means Eligibility Service or Credited Service recognized under the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, whichever is greater.
Service
Service
means a person who is Married to the Employee.
"Spouse"
means the Summary Plan Description.
SPD
 
119
 

 
 
The purpose of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Plan) is to aid The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries in retaining and attracting executive employees by providing them with tax deferred savings opportunities.  The Plan provides a select group of management and highly compensated employees of The Dow Chemical Company and certain subsidiaries with the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of specified portions of compensation, and to have these deferred amounts treated as if invested in specified Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  The benefits provided under the Plan shall be provided in consideration for services to be performed after the effective date of the Plan, but prior to the executives Separation from Service.
The Plan is intended to (1) constitute an unfunded program maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated Employees consistent with the requirements of Sections 201(2), 301 (a)(3) and 401 (a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA9, and (2) comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code) and official guidance issued thereunder.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
The Plan shall be effective for deferrals made hereunder on or after January 1, 2005.  Amendments were made to the Plan on January 10, 2005 and March 11 2005 to comply with the provisions of Code section 409A, and a minor amendment was made to the Plan on January 23, 2006. On September 1, 2006, the Plan was amended to further comply with the provisions of Code section 409A and, effective September 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007, to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  On November 1, 2006, the Plan was amended for Change of Control language.  On December 31, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A and the final regulations thereunder, effective January 1, 2009. On January 1, 2010, minor amendments to the Plan were made via a Plan restatement to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, to clarify the valuation date used for the calculation of installment payments, and to eliminate the small balance distribution.  For rules that apply to the distribution of amounts that were earned and vested prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A, refer to the plan document in effect on October 3, 2004. For rules that apply to the distribution of amounts that were earned and vested prior to January 1, 2010 (and earnings thereon) refer to the plan document in effect on January 1, 2009 unless such distributions have been further modified by a participant election per section 7.02 below.
           For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
             Administrator means the Retirement Board appointed under the Dow Employees Pension Plan.
Section 2.01
  Administrator.
             Base Salary means the annual base rate of pay from the Company at which a Participant is employed (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions under (A) deferrals pursuant to Section 4.02 and (B) contributions made on his or her behalf to any qualified plan maintained by any Company or to any cafeteria plan under Code section 125 maintained by any Company. Base Salary for a Cadre Employee means the annual base rate of pay (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before the deductions listed above payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
Section 2.02
Base Salary.
 
120
 
           .  Base Salary Deferral means the amount of a Participants Base Salary which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Base Salary and credited to his or her Deferral Account pursuant to Section 4.02.
Section 2.03
  Base Salary Deferral
           Beneficiary means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to Article VIII.
Section 2.04
  Beneficiary.
           .  Board means the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical Company.
Section 2.05
  Board
           Cadre Employee means an employee who has been authorized by Dow Europe GmbH to participate in the Cadre Pension Plan and who earns compensation while on assignment in the U.S.
Section 2.06
  Cadre Employee.  
             For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred on: (a) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group acquires, ownership of stock of The Dow Chemical Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of The Dow Chemical Company, (b) the date that a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical Company is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the directors before the date of the appointment or election, (c) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of The Dow Chemical Company possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of such corporation, (d) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from The Dow Chemical Company that has a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of The Dow Chemical Company immediately before such acquisition or acquisitions, provided that the following asset transfers shall not result in a Change of Control: (i) a transfer of assets to a stockholder of The Dow Chemical Company in exchange for or with respect to its stock, (ii) a transfer to a corporation, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by The Dow Chemical Company, (iii) a transfer to a person, or more than one person acting as a group, that owns 50% or more of the stock of The Dow Chemical Company, or (iv) a transfer to an entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in clause (iii). This definition of Change of Control is intended to conform to the definition of a change in ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation as defined under Code section 409A and any subsequent authority issued pursuant thereto, and no corporate event shall be considered a Change of Control unless it meets such requirements.
Section 2.07
  Change of Control.
           .  Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Section 2.08  
Code
           .  Common Stock means the common stock of The Dow Chemical Company.
Section 2.09
  Common Stock
             Company means The Dow Chemical Company, its successors, any subsidiary or affiliated organizations authorized by the Board or the Administrator to participate in the Plan and any organization into which or with which The Dow Chemical Company may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.
Section 2.10
  Company.
           Deferral Account means the notional account established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to Article VI.
Section 2.11
  Deferral Account.
             Deferred Amount means the amount deferred pursuant to Section 4.02.
Section 2.12
  Deferred Amount.
             Designee means The Dow Chemical Companys Global Compensation & Benefits Department to whom the Administrator has delegated the authority to take action under the Plan.
Section 2.13
  Designee.
           Disabled or Disability means a Participant who, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under the Companys ERISA welfare plan that provides long-term disability payments.  The Administrator, in its complete and sole discretion, shall determine whether a Participant is Disabled. The Administrator may require that the Participant submit to an examination on an annual basis, at the expense of the Company at which such Participant was employed, by a
Section 2.14
  Disabled.  
 
121
 
competent physician or medical clinic selected by the Administrator to confirm the Participant is Disabled.  On the basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Administrator as to whether or not a condition of Disability exists or continues shall be conclusive.
           Discretionary Company Contribution means an amount credited to a Participants Deferral Account pursuant to Section 7.09.
Section 2.15
  Discretionary Company Contribution.
           .  A person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
Section 2,16
  Domestic Partner
           .  A partnership of two people that meets the definition of Domestic Partnership as defined in the Savings Plan.
Section 2.17
  Domestic Partnership
             Eligible Compensation means any Base Salary, Performance Awards and any other monies treated as eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company, payable to a Participant to the extent the Participant is on the U.S. payroll of the Company at the time the amount would have otherwise been paid to the Participant.  Eligible Compensation for a Cadre Employee means any Base Salary, Performance Awards and any other monies treated as eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company, payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
Section 2.18
  Eligible Compensation.
             Eligible Employee means an employee of any Company who: (i) is a United States employee or an expatriate who is paid from one of The Dow Chemical Companys U.S. entities, (ii) is a member of the functional specialist/functional leader or global leadership job families, (Hi) has a job level of 362 points or higher, (iv) is eligible for participation in the Savings Plan, (v) is designated by the Administrator as eligible to participate in the Plan as of September 30 for deferral of Base Salary and Performance Awards, and (vi) qualifies as a member of the select group of management or highly compensated employees under ERISA.  For purposes of Section 7.09, Discretionary Company Contributions, only, Eligible Employee means an employee who: (i) is a United States employee, (H) has terminated employment with a foreign affiliate of the Company and has accepted employment with one of the Companys U.S. entities, (Hi) is eligible for a signing bonus from one of the Companys U.S. entities, (iv) has a job level of 208 points or higher, (v) is eligible for participation in the Savings Plan and (vi) qualifies as a member of the select group of management or highly compensated employees under ERISA.
Section 2.19
  Eligible Employee.
             ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Section 2.20
  ERISA.
           Executive Life Insurance means a life insurance policy under TDCC Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, or the UCC Executive Life Insurance Plan.
Section 2.21
  Executive Life Insurance.
             Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock means the closing price of The Dow Chemical Companys Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the most recent day on which the Common Stock was so traded that precedes the date the Fair Market Value is to be determined.  The definition of Fair Market Value in this Section shall be exclusively used to determine the values of a Participants interest in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund (defined in Section 6.02(b)) for all relevant purposes under the Plan.
Section 2.22
  Fair Market Value.
           .  Form of Payment means payment in one lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years.
Section 2.23
  Form of Payment
           Hardship Withdrawal means the early payment of all or part of the balance in a Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
Section 2.24
  Hardship Withdrawal.  
           Hypothetical Investment Benchmark shall mean the phantom investment benchmarks which are used to measure the return credited to a Participants Deferral Account.
Section 2.25
  Hypothetical Investment Benchmark.  
           Key Employee means any Eligible Employee or Cadre Employee who has a job level of 820 points or higher as of his Separation from Service.
Section 2.26
  Key Employee.  
           Matching Contribution means the amount of annual matching contribution that each Company will make to the Plan.
Section 2.27
  Matching Contribution.  
 
122
 
           Participant means any individual who is eligible and makes an election to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV.
Section2.28
  Participant.  
           Participation Agreement means an agreement filed by a Participant in accordance with Article IV.
Section 2.29
  Participation Agreement.  
           Performance Awards means the amount paid in cash to the Participant by any Company in the form of annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year.  Performance Awards for a Cadre Employee means the annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
Section 2.30
  Performance Awards.  
           Performance Deferral means the amount of a Participants Performance Award which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Performance Award and credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
Section 2.31
Performance Deferral.  
             Phantom Share Units means units of deemed investment in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock so determined under Section 6.02(b).
Section 2.32
  Phantom Share Units.
             Plan Year means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.
Section 2.33
  Plan Year.
           .  Savings Plan means The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan as it currently exists and as it may subsequently be amended.
Section 2.34
  Savings Plan
           Section 16 Participant means an officer or director of The Dow Chemical Company required to report transactions in The Dow Chemical Company securities to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Section 2.35
  Section 16 Participant.
           Separation from Service or Separates from Service means a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, except that in applying Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b)and (c) of the Code, and in applying Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control under Section 414(c) of the Code, the language at least 45 percent is used instead of at least 80 percent each place it appears.
Section 2.36
  Separation from Service.
 
             Unforeseeable Emergency means severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participants spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code section 152(a)) of the Participant loss of the Participants property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Administrator.  The amount of the distribution may not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participants assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship) or by cessation of the Participants deferrals under the Plan.
Section 2.37
  Unforeseeable Emergency.
             Valuation Date means the 4 day or the prior business day each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
Section 2.38
  Valuation Date.
th
             This Plan shall be administered by the Administrator.  The Administrator shall act by a majority of its members by vote at a meeting or by unanimous consent in writing.  If all members of the Administrator are not available, a quorum, consisting of three (3) members of the Administrator, may act by a majority of the quorum. It may authorize one or more of its members to execute documents in its behalf.  Any person, upon written notification of the authorization, shall accept and rely upon that authorization until notified in writing that the Administrator has revoked the authorization.  The Administrator shall appoint a secretary (who may or may not be an Administrator
Section 3.01
  Administrator Duties.
 
123
 
member) to keep all minutes of its meetings and to receive and deliver all notices.  The secretary shall record and, where appropriate, communicate to all persons affected all delegations made by the Administrator of its responsibilities, any rules and procedures adopted by the Administrator and all other formal actions taken by the Administrator.  No member of the Administrator shall vote or act on any matter relating solely to him/herself.  The Administrator may meet by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment that enables all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting and waiver of notice of such meeting.
The Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of this Plan and shall have all powers necessary to administer this Plan, including discretionary authority to determine eligibility for benefits and to decide claims under the terms of this Plan, except to the extent that any such powers that are specially vested in any other person administering this Plan by the Administrator.  The Administrator may from time to time establish rules for the administration on this Plan, and it shall have the exclusive right to interpret this Plan and to decide any matters arising in connection with the administration and operation of this Plan.  All rules, interpretations and decisions of the Administrator shall be conclusive and binding on any Company, Participants and Beneficiaries.
The Administrator has delegated to the Designee responsibility for performing certain administrative and ministerial functions under this Plan.  The Designee shall be responsible for determining in the first instance issues related to eligibility, Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, distribution of Deferred Amounts, determination of account balances, crediting of hypothetical earnings and debiting of hypothetical losses and of distributions, withdrawals, deferral elections and any other duties concerning the day-to-day operation of this Plan.  The Administrator shall have discretion to delegate such additional duties as it may determine.  The Designee may retain and supervise outside providers, third party administrators, record keepers and professionals (including in-house professionals) to perform any or all of the duties delegated to it hereunder.
Neither The Dow Chemical Company, any other Company, a member of the Board, a member of the Administrator nor the Designee shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of omission or commission, by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the administration of this Plan have been delegated or for anything done or omitted to be done in connection with this Plan.
The Dow Chemical Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify each director, officer or employee of The Dow Chemical Company (including the heirs, executors, administrators and other personal representatives of such person), each member of the Administrator and the Designee against expenses (including attorneys fees), judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with any threatened, pending or actual suit, action or proceeding (whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative in nature or otherwise) in which such person may be involved by reason of the fact that he or she is or was serving this Plan in any capacity at the request of The Dow Chemical Company, the Administrator or Designee.
Any expense incurred by The Dow Chemical Company or the Administrator relative to the administration of this Plan shall be paid by The Dow Chemical Company and/or may be deducted from the Deferral Accounts of the Participants as determined by the Administrator or Designee.
            If a Participant or Beneficiary (claimant) makes a written request alleging a right to receive payments under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under this Plan, such actions shall be treated as a claim for benefits. Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only if the Designee or the Administrator, as the case may be, determines, in its sole discretion, that a claimant is entitled to them.
Section 3.02
  Claim Procedure.
             (a)                      All initial claims for benefits under this Plan shall be sent to the Designee. If the Designee determines that any individual who has claimed a right to receive benefits, or different benefits, under this Plan is not entitled to receive all or any part of the benefits claimed, the Designee shall inform the claimant in writing of such determination and the reasons therefore in terms calculated to be understood by the claimant.  The notice shall be sent within 90 days (45 days when the claim for benefits relates to receipt of disability payments) of receipt of the claim unless the Designee determines that additional time, not exceeding 90 additional days (30 days when the claim for benefits relates to receipt of disability payments and a second additional 30 days for a benefits determination when the Designee determines the additional time is necessary), is needed and so notifies the claimant in writing before the expiration of the initial 90 day period (45 day period when the claim relates to receipt of disability benefit payments).  Any written notice of extension for review shall include the circumstances requiring extension and date by which a decision is expected to be rendered.  A written notice of denial of benefits shall (1) state specific reasons for the denial, (2) make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (3) describe any additional material or information that is necessary to support the claimants claim and an
 
124
 
explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (4) include a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all documents, records or other information relevant (as defined by Department of Labor Regulation Section 2560.503-1(m)) to the claim.  Such notice shall, in addition, inform the claimant of the procedure that the claimant should follow to take advantage of the review procedures set forth below in the event the claimant desires to contest the denial of the claim, including the right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following exhaustion of review procedures set forth herein.
             (b)                      The claimant may within 60 days (180 days when the review relates to receipt of disability benefits) after notice of the denial submit, in writing, to the Administrator a notice that the claimant contests the denial of his or her claim and desires a further review by the Administrator.  During the review process, the claimant has the right to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for benefits, which the Administrator shall consider without regard to whether the items were considered upon the initial review.  The Administrator shall within 60 days thereafter review the claim and authorize the claimant to, upon request and free of charge, have reasonable access to, and copies of all documents, records or other information relevant (as defined by Department of Labor Regulation Section 2560.503-1(m)) to the claim.  The Administrator will render a final decision on behalf of The Dow Chemical Company with specific reasons therefore in writing and will transmit it to the claimant within 60 days (45 days when the claim relates to receipt of disability payments) of the written request for review, unless the Administrator determines that additional time, not exceeding 60 days (45 days when the claim relates to disability payments), is needed, and so notifies the claimant in writing before the expiration of the initial 60 day period (45 days when the claim relates to disability payments).  In no event shall the Administrator render a final decision later than the initial 60 days (45 days when the claim relates to the receipt of disability payments) plus the possible additional 60 days (45 days when the claim relates to the receipt of disability payments) following receipt of the claimants appeal.  Any written notice of extension for review shall include the circumstances requiring extension and date by which a decision is expected to be rendered.  A written notice of denial of benefits upon review shall (1) state specific reasons for the denial, (2) make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, and (3) include a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of all documents, records or other information relevant (as defined by Department of Labor Regulation Section 2560.503-1(m)) to the claim.  Such notice shall, in addition, inform the claimant of the right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.  If such determination is adverse to the claimant, it shall be binding and conclusive unless the claimant notifies the Administrator within 90 days after the mailing or delivery to him or her by the Administrator of its determination that he or she intends to institute legal proceedings challenging the determination of the Administrator, and actually institutes such legal proceeding within 180 days after such mailing or delivery.
  Participation.
Section 4.01
            (a)                      Eligible Employees. In general, participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Administrator in accordance with the Companys enrollment procedures.  A Participation Agreement normally must be filed on or prior to the November 30 (Eastern Standard Time) immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation to which the Participation Agreement relates is earned.  An individual shall not be eligible to elect to participate in this Plan unless the individual qualifies as an Eligible Employee for the Plan Year for which the election is made.  The Administrator, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, may permit a newly Eligible Employee to submit a Participation Agreement within 30 days after the date the Eligible Employee becomes eligible, and deferrals shall commence as soon as practical thereafter for Eligible Compensation earned after the Administrator receives a completed and timely submitted Participation Agreement.
           (b)                      Cadre Employees. Cadre Employees shall also be eligible to participate in the Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Administrator in accordance with the Companys enrollment procedures.  A Participation Agreement normally must be filed on or prior to the November 30 (Eastern Standard Time) immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation to which the Participation Agreement relates is earned.  The Administrator, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and the regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, may permit a newly eligible Cadre Employee to submit a Participation Agreement within 30 days after the date the Cadre Employee becomes eligible, and deferrals shall commence as soon as practical thereafter for Eligible Compensation earned after the Administrator receives a completed and timely submitted Participation Agreement. In addition, the Administrator, in
 
125
 
its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Code section 409A Code and the regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, may permit a newly eligible Cadre Employee for the first Plan Year in which the Cadre Employee is a resident alien to make a deferral election in a timely manner as permitted under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-2(c).
  Contents of Participation Agreement.
Section 4.02
(a)                      Eligible Employees. Subject to Article VII, each Participation Agreement shall set forth the amount of Eligible Compensation for the Plan Year to which the Participation Agreement relates that is to be deferred under the Plan (the Deferred Amount), expressed as either a dollar amount or a percentage of the Base Salary and Performance Awards for such Plan Year; provided, that the minimum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year shall not be less than 5% (in 5% increments) of Base Salary and/or 5% (in 5% increments) of any Performance Award and the maximum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year shall not exceed 50% of Base Salary and 85% of any Performance Award. Effective for deferrals earned on or after January 1, 2010, the maximum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year shall not exceed 75% of Base Salary and 100% of Performance Award.  In accordance with the provisions contained in Article VII, each Participation Agreement shall also set forth a time and Form of Payment of a Deferred Amount. Participation Agreements are to be completed in a format specified by the Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant shall have failed to designate properly the form of payment of the Participants benefit under the Plan, such payment will be in a lump sum.
           
            (b)                      Cadre Employees. A Cadre Employees Participation Agreement shall set forth the amount of Base Salary for the Plan Year to which the Participation Agreement relates that is to be deferred under the Plan (the Deferred Amount), expressed as a whole percentage of the Base Salary for such Plan Year; that the maximum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year shall not exceed 15% of Base Salary.  In addition, each Participation Agreement shall, in accordance with the provisions contained in Article VII, set forth a time and Form of Payment of a Deferred Amount.  Participation Agreements are to be completed in a format specified by the Administrator.
provided
           .  A Participant may not change the amount of his or her Deferred Amount during a Plan Year.  A Participants Participation Agreement may not be made, modified or revoked retroactively.
Section 4.03
  Modification or Revocation of Election by Participant
             The Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participants Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Companys Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participants Base Salary or Performance Award. Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings credit under Section 6.02 based on a Participants investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the Administrator from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
Section 5.01
  Elective Deferred Compensation.
           . Except as provided in Sections 7.09 and 7.10, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account as of each Valuation Date.
Section 5.02
   Vesting of Deferral Account
             Separate Deferral Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant.  More than one Deferral Account may be maintained for a Participant as necessary to reflect (a) various Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks and/or (b) separate Participation Agreements specifying different times and Forms of Payment.  A Participants Deferral Account(s) shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to
Section 6.01
  Maintenance of Accounts.
 
126
 
be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan, and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  The Administrator shall determine the balance of each Deferral Account, as of each Valuation Date, by adjusting the balance of such Deferral Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date to reflect changes in the value of the deemed investments thereof, credits and debits pursuant to Section 6.02 and Section 7.08 and distributions pursuant to Article VII with respect to such Deferral Account since the preceding Valuation Date.
 
             (a) Each Participant shall be entitled to direct the manner in which his or her Deferral Accounts will be deemed to be invested, selecting among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the Administrator from time to time, and in accordance with such rules, regulations and procedures as the Administrator may establish from time to time.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, earnings and losses based on a Participants investment elections shall begin to accrue as of the date such Participants Deferred Amounts are credited to his or her Deferral Accounts.  Participants, except for Section 16 Participants, can reallocate among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks on a daily basis. Section 16 Participants can reallocate among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks in accordance with such rules, regulations and procedures as the Administrator may establish from time to time.
Section 6.02
  Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.
 
             (b) (i)                The Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks available for Deferral Accounts will include The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.  The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund will consist of deemed investments in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock including reinvestment of dividends and stock splits. Deferred Amounts that are deemed to be invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be converted into Phantom Share Units based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date(s) the Deferred Amounts are to be credited to a Deferral Account.  The portion of any Deferral Account that is invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be credited, as of each dividend payment date, with additional Phantom Share Units of Common Stock with respect to cash dividends paid on the Common Stock with record dates during the period beginning on the day after the most recent preceding Valuation Date and ending on such Valuation Date.
             (ii)                      When a reallocation or a distribution of all or a portion of a Deferral Account that is invested in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund is to be made, the balance in such a Deferral Account shall be determined by multiplying the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the most recent Valuation Date preceding the date of such reallocation or distribution by the number of Phantom Share Units to be reallocated or distributed. Upon a distribution, the amounts in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund shall be distributed in the form of cash having a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a comparable number of actual shares of Common Stock.
             (iii)                      In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, or other change in the corporate structure of The Dow Chemical Company affecting Common Stock, or a sale by The Dow Chemical Company of all or part of its assets, or any distribution to stockholders other than a normal cash dividend, then the Administrator may make appropriate adjustments to the number of Phantom Share Units credited to any Deferral Account.  The determination of the Administrator as to such adjustments, if any, to be made shall be conclusive.
Section 16 Participants may not elect to direct their Deferral Amount into the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.
             (iv)                      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Administrator shall adopt such procedures as it may determine are necessary to ensure that with respect to any Participant who is actually or potentially subject to Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the crediting of deemed shares to his or her Deferral Account is deemed to be an exempt purchase for purposes of such Section 16(b), including without limitation requiring that no shares of Common Stock or cash relating to such deemed shares may be distributed for six months after being credited to such Deferral Account.
           Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Deferral Account(s) in such form as the Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Deferral Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.
Section 6.03
  Statement of Accounts.
 
127
 
Section 7.01
  Time and Form of Payment.
(a)            For Deferral Accounts for years prior to 2010. The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to the Participant the balance of each Deferral Account at the time and in the Form of Payment as provided in this Article 7.01(a). A separate distribution election can be made for Base Salary and Performance Award. If the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the balance of such Participants Deferral Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for any such payments.
   
             (i)                       Distributions in a Specific Year. A Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash in a specific future year or be distributed in installment payments (either annual or monthly from 2 to 15 years) beginning in a specific future year. Distributions pursuant to this Section 7.01(a) shall be made or commence on the January 31 (or the last immediately preceding business day of January if such January 31st is not a business day) of the year that the Participant has selected to begin receiving distributions.  If a Participant has selected quarterly installment payments, such distributions shall commence on the March 31 (or the last immediately preceding business day of March if such March 31st is not a business day) of the year that the Participant has selected to begin receiving distributions. The minimum deferral period is 12 months for Base Salary and 24 months for Performance Awards.
             (ii)                      Distributions upon Separation from Service. Alternatively, a Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed (i) in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash in the year after the year in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs, (ii) in installment payments (either annual, quarterly or monthly for up to 15 years) beginning in the year after the year in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs, (iii) in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash in the second year after the year in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs, or (iv) in installment payments (either annual, quarterly or monthly for up to 15 years) beginning in the second year after the year in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs. Except when a Participant elects quarterly installment payments, such distributions pursuant to this Section 7.01(b) shall be made or commence on the January 31 (or the last immediately preceding business day of January if such January 31st is not a business day) of the applicable year.  If a Participant has selected quarterly installment payments, such distributions pursuant to this Section 7.01(b) shall commence on the March 31st (or the last immediately preceding business day of March if such March 31st is not a business day) of the applicable year.
             (iii)                      Distributions upon Separation from Service by a Key Employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, distributions may not be made to a Key Employee upon a Separation from Service before the date which is six months after the date of the Key Employees Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Key Employees death).
             (iv)                      Calculation of Installments.  If a Participant has elected in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in installment payments, each installment payment shall equal the balance of such Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date, times a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of remaining installment payments.  Each subsequent installment shall be paid on or about the succeeding anniversary of such first payment or in quarterly or monthly intervals, if selected.  Each such installment shall be deemed to be made on a pro rata basis from each of the different deemed investments of the Deferral Account (if there is more than one such deemed investment).
(b)            For Deferral Accounts for years 2010 and later, The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to the Participant the balance of each Deferral Account at the time and in the Form of Payment as provided in this Article 7.01(b). A separate distribution election can be made for Base Salary and Performance Award. If the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the balance of such Participants Deferral Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for any such payments.
  
             (i)                       Distributions in a Specific Year. A Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash in a specific future year or be distributed in installment payments (either annual or monthly from 2 to 15 years) beginning in a
 
128
 
specific future year. Distributions pursuant to this Section 7.01(a) shall be made or commence within the month elected by the participant.
             (ii)                      Distributions upon Separation from Service. Alternatively, a Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed (i) in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash commencing within 60 days in which the Participants Separation from Service occurs (ii) in a lump sum (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date) in cash commencing within 60 days following the twelve months anniversary from the Participants Separation from Service, (iii) in installment payments (either annual or monthly from 2 to 15 years) in cash commencing within 60 days following the Participants Separation from Service, or (iv) in installment payments (either annual or monthly from 2 to 15 years) in cash commencing within 60 days following the twelve months anniversary from the Participants Separation from Service
             (iii)                      Distributions upon Separation from Service by a Key Employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, distributions may not be made to a Key Employee upon a Separation from Service before the date which is six months after the date of the Key Employees Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Key Employees death).
             (iv)                      Calculation of Installments.  If a Participant has elected in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in installment payments, each installment payment shall equal the balance of such Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date, times a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of remaining installment payments.  Each subsequent installment shall be paid on or about the succeeding anniversary of such first payment or in quarterly (applicable for disbursement elections made prior to January 1, 2010) or monthly intervals, if selected.  Each such installment shall be deemed to be made on a pro rata basis from each of the different deemed investments of the Deferral Account (if there is more than one such deemed investment).
              .  A Participant may subsequently elect an alternative time or Form of payment as available under Section 7.01 by written election flied with the Administrator; provided, however, that:
Section 7.02
  Changing Time or Form of Benefit
             Notwithstanding any election by a Participant in a Participation Agreement or provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant dies prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding death) to the Participants Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) in a lump sum in cash as soon as administratively practicable within 90 days after the Participants death, provided that such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall not have the right to designate the taxable year of payment.  If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participants Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.
Section 7.03
  Survivor Benefit.
 
             Notwithstanding any election by a Participant in a Participation Agreement or provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant incurs a Disability prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding death) to the Participant in a lump sum in cash as soon as administratively practicable within 90 days after the Participant becomes Disabled, provided that the Participant shall not have the right to designate the taxable year of payment.  If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such Participants Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.
Section 7.04
  Disability.
 
129
 
           .  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any elections by a Participant in a Participation Agreement a Participant shall be entitled to early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, in accordance with this Section 7.06.  A distribution pursuant to this Section 7.06 may only be made to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need, and may not be made if such need is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participants assets to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (ii) by cessation of participation in the Plan.  An application for an early payment under this Section 7.06 shall be made to the Administrator in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The determination of whether and in what amount a distribution will be permitted pursuant to this Section 7.06 shall be made by the Administrator.  Upon such an early payment under this Section 7.06 in a Plan Year, the Participants deferral election pursuant to Section 4.02 shall be cancelled with respect to any Deferred Amounts that would otherwise be deferred for the remainder of such Plan Year.
Section 7.05
  Hardship Withdrawals
             In accordance with the Companys procedures and to the extent permitted by Code section 409A, a Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement that, if a Change of Control occurs, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payment of the balance of the Participants applicable Deferral Account within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control.  Certain Participants were provided with transition elections during the Code section 409A transition period to have their 2005-2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, paid in a lump sum within thirty (30> days after a Change of Control.  In the event a Participant did not elect to have his 2005-2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, paid in a lump sum upon a Change of Control, such 2005 2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, will be distributed in accordance with the Participants Distribution elections in the relevant Participation Agreements.
Section 7.06
  Change of Control.
           Each Eligible Employee who elects to make deferrals of Eligible Compensation to the Plan will be credited with a Matching Contribution utilizing the same formula authorized under the Savings Plan for employer matching contributions.  For purposes of calculating the match under this Plan, The Dow Chemical Company will assume each Participant is contributing the maximum allowable amount to the Savings Plan and receiving a match thereon.  The Matching Contribution calculated under provisions of this Plan will be reduced by this assumed match from the Savings Plan.  The amount of the Matching Contribution may be based on a formula that takes into account a Participants overall compensation and may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Matching Contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible within the first 60 days of the following Plan Year.  The Matching Contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the Eligible Compensation deferrals of the Participant at such time.  The Matching Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant at the same time and in the same Form of Payment as the Participants Deferred Amount (and earnings thereon) for such Plan Year in accordance with this Article VII, and will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date credited to the Participants account. In the event a Participant has elected one time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Base Salary Deferral for such Plan Year and another time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Performance Deferral for such Plan Year, the Matching Contribution (and earnings thereon) for such Plan Year shall be distributed in accordance with the time and Form of Payment applicable to the Participants Base Salary Deferral for such Plan Year.  A Cadre Employee is not eligible for a Matching Contribution.
Section 7.07
  Matching Contribution.  
If a Participant is employed by a Company, other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all Matching Contributions credited to Participants of such Company shall be paid or transferred in full by such Company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such Matching Contribution is credited to a Participants Deferral Account. The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
           .  Any Company may at any time contribute a discretionary Company contribution. This discretionary Company contribution may be for payments including, but not limited to, signing or retention bonuses.  The amount of the discretionary Company contribution may vary from payroll period to payroll period throughout the Plan Year may be based on a formula which takes into account a Participants overall compensation, and otherwise may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The discretionary Company contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the payroll period.  The discretionary contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant at the time, or if none, BGI LifePath (according to age). Subject to the other provisions contained in this Article VII, if no distribution election is made, any vested discretionary contribution (and earnings thereon) shall be distributed to the Participant in cash in a lump sum within 60 days following the Participants Separation from Service.  Any vesting schedule shall be determined by the
Section 7.8
  Discretionary Company Contributions
 
130
 
Administrator at the time the discretionary Company contribution is made. A Cadre Employee is not eligible for a discretionary Company contribution.
If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer to The Dow Chemical Company any amounts designated as discretionary Company contributions for all such Participants as of the date such discretionary Company contributions are credited to a Participants Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
            Each Cadre Employee will be credited with a nondiscretionary Company contribution equal to (1) 4% of the Cadre Employees monthly Base Salary for each month while he is an eligible to participate in the Plan, and (2) 12% of the Cadre Employees Performance Awards received annually while he is eligible to participate in the Plan.  The Company contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the applicable period.  The Company contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant at the time, or if none, BGI LifePath (according to age).  Subject to the other provisions contained in this Article VII, the Company contribution shall be distributed to the Participant at the same time and in the same form as the Participants deferrals for the Plan Year in which the nondiscretionary Company contribution is made in accordance with this Article VII.  In the event a Participant has elected one time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Base Salary Deferral for such year and another time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Performance Deferral for such year, the Company contribution (and earnings thereon) for such year shall be distributed in accordance with the time and Form of Payment applicable to the Participants Base Salary Deferral for such year. If no base salary deferral election is made by the Participant, the nondiscretionary Company contribution distribution will be made via lump sum at separation per section 7.01. The nondiscretionary Company contributions will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date the Participant is eligible to participate in the Plan.
Section 7.9
  Special Cadre Plan Contributions.
If a Participant is employed by a company other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all nondiscretionary Company contributions credited to Participants of such company shall be paid or transferred in full by such company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such contribution is credited to a Participants Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
           Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, any Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any amounts required to be so withheld by any applicable law or regulation.  The Company may also accelerate and pay a portion of a Participants benefits in a lump sum equal to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed and the income tax withholding related to such FICA amounts.
Section 7.10
  Withholding of Taxes.
             Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a portion of the Participants Deferral Account balance is includible in income under Code section 409A, such portion shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
Section 7.11
  Distribution Upon Inclusion in Income.
             Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.  A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall establish from time to time.
Section 8.01
  Beneficiary Designation.
             If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participants Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:
Section 8.02
  No Beneficiary Designation.
(a) to the spouse or Domestic Partner of such person, if any;
(b) to the children of such person, if any;
(c) to the beneficiary of any company paid life insurance of such person, if any:
(d) to the beneficiary of the Executive Life Insurance of such person, if any;
 
131
 
(e) to the beneficiary of any Company-sponsored life insurance policy for which any Company pays all or part of the premium of such person, if any; or
(f) to the deceased persons estate.
             The Board may at any time amend this Plan in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of the Plan shall apply to amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts.  The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent material modification to amounts that are grandfathered and exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A.
Section 9.01  
Amendment.
             The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Participation Agreements.  The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time for any reason, including without limitation if, in its judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of The Dow Chemical Company.  Any plan termination made pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall be performed in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other applicable guidance issued thereunder. In the event a Participant is employed by a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company at the time distributions are made as a result of the plan termination and such Company makes the required payments to the Participant, The Dow Chemical Company shall transfer to such Company an amount equal to the amount paid to the Participant on account of termination of the Plan. Any Company may cease participation in the Plan for any reason by notifying The Dow Chemical Company in writing at least 30 days prior to such Companys cessation of participation. Payments to Participants by any such Company will commence in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Companys cessation of participation will otherwise comply with Code section 409A.
Section 9.02
  Companys Right to Terminate.
             Except as provided in the next sentence, no amendment or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant to amounts credited to his Deferral Accounts as of the effective date of such amendment or termination. Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of balances in Deferral Accounts shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in Article VII, unless the Company determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.  Upon termination of the Plan, no further deferrals of Eligible Compensation shall be permitted; however, earnings, gains and losses shall continue to be credited to Deferral Account balances in accordance with Article VI until the Deferral Account balances are fully distributed.
Section 9.03
  Effect of Amendment or Termination.
             This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. All payments pursuant to the Plan shall first be made from the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company, as the entity primarily liable for such payments, and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment.  As described above, if a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay such Participants Deferral Account balance to such Participant according to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for the amount of the payment In the event The Dow Chemical Company is insolvent or is otherwise unable to make any required payment or reimbursement to a Participant or a Company, the Company (other than The Dow Chemical Company) that employed such Participant shall be secondarily liable for such payments from the general assets of such Company.  No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of The Dow Chemical Company or any other Company as a result of participating in the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, The Dow Chemical Company may (but shall not be
Section 10.01
  Unfunded Plan.
 
132
 
obligated to) create one or more grantor trusts, the assets of which are subject to the claims of The Dow Chemical Companys creditors, to assist it in accumulating funds to pay its obligations.
             Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the. amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participants or any other persons bankruptcy or insolvency.
Section 10.02
  Nonassignability.
 
           .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 10.03
  Validity and Severability
             The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.
Section 10.04
  Governing Law.
           .  This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or any Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of such Company or change the status of the Participants employment or the policies of such Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.
Section 10.05
  Employment Status
             Nothing in this Plan shall prevent any Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Performance Awards are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.
Section 10.06
  Underlying Incentive Plans and Programs.
           The rights and obligations of The Dow Chemical Company shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of The Dow Chemical Company.
Section 10.07
  Successors of the Company.  
           The waiver by The Dow Chemical Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.
Section 10.08
  Waiver of Breach.
             Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to The Dow Chemical Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of The Dow Chemical Company, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark.
Section 10.09
  Notice.
 
133
 
APPENDIX A: Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
The funds offered in the Savings Plan are also offered in this plan.
 
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
The Angus Cash Fund is grandfathered to existing participants.  No new contributions are allowed.
 
134
 

 
 
 
 
1988 AWARD AND OPTION PLAN
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) has delivered to you prospectus material pertaining to the shares of Common Stock covered by The Dow Chemical Company 1988 Award and Option Plan (the Plan). This instrument is referred to herein as this Agreement. Terms that are used herein and defined in the Plan are used as defined in the Plan. THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
135
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
136
 

 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) has delivered to you prospectus material pertaining to the shares of Common Stock covered by The Dow Chemical Company 1988 Award and Option Plan (the Plan). This instrument is referred to herein as this Agreement. Terms that are used herein and defined in the Plan are used as defined in the Plan. THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
137
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
138
 

 
 
 
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY 1988 AWARD AND OPTION PLAN
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company (the Company or Dow) has delivered to you prospectus material pertaining to shares of Dow Common Stock covered by The Dow Chemical Company 1988 Award and Option Plan (the Plan). This document is referred to herein as this Agreement. Terms that are used herein and defined in the Plan are used as defined in the Plan. THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
139
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
140
 

 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company (the Company or Dow) has delivered to you prospectus material pertaining to shares of Dow Common Stock covered by The Dow Chemical Company 1988 Award and Option Plan (the Plan). This document is referred to herein as this Agreement. Terms that are used herein and defined in the Plan are used as defined in the Plan. THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
141
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
142
 

 
 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT RELATING TO A STOCK OPTION GRANTED UNDER THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY 1988 AWARD AND OPTION PLAN
 
The Dow Chemical Company (the Company or Dow) has delivered to you prospectus material pertaining to shares of Dow Common Stock covered by The Dow Chemical Company 1988 Award and Option Plan (the Plan). This instrument is referred to herein as this Agreement. Terms that are used herein and defined in the Plan are used as defined in the Plan. THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
143
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
144
 


